-CITE-
                           THE ORGANIC LAWS

                                  OF

                     THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
-End-


-CITE-
    USC THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE - 1776                01/03/2007

-EXPCITE-
    THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE - 1776

-HEAD-
    THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE - 1776

-MISC1-
                 THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE - 1776 (!1)
                      IN CONGRESS, JULY 4, 1776
     THE UNANIMOUS DECLARATION OF THE THIRTEEN UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 
      When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one 
    people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with 
    another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and
    equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle 
    them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they 
    should declare the causes which impel them to the separation.

      We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created
    equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable
    Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
    That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men,
    deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,_That
    whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is
    the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new
    Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its
    powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their
    Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments
    long established should not be changed for light and transient causes;
    and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more
    disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves
    by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long
    train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object
    evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their
    right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide
    new Guards for their future security._Such has been the patient
    sufferance of these Colonies; and such is now the necessity which
    constrains them to alter their former Systems of Government. The history
    of the present King of Great Britain is a history of repeated injuries
    and usurpations, all having in direct object the establishment of an
    absolute Tyranny over these States. To prove this, let Facts be
    submitted to a candid world.

      He has refused his Assent to Laws, the most wholesome and necessary
    for the public good.

      He has forbidden his Governors to pass Laws of immediate and pressing
    importance, unless suspended in their operation till his Assent should
    be obtained; and when so suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend
    to them.

      He has refused to pass other Laws for the accommodation of large
    districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of
    Representation in the Legislature, a right inestimable to them and
    formidable to tyrants only.

      He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual,
    uncomfortable, and distance from the depository of their public Records,
    for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his
    measures.

      He has dissolved Representative Houses repeatedly, for opposing with
    manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people.

      He has refused for a long time, after such dissolutions, to cause
    others to be elected; whereby the Legislative powers, incapable of
    Annihilation, have returned to the People at large for their exercise;
    the State remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of
    invasion from without, and convulsions within.

      He has endeavoured to prevent the population of these States; for that
    purpose obstructing the Laws for Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing
    to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising the
    conditions of new Appropriations of Lands.

      He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his
    Assent to Laws for establishing Judiciary powers.

      He has made Judges dependent on his Will alone, for the tenure of
    their offices, and the amount and payment of their salaries.

      He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of
    Officers to harass our people, and eat out their substance.

      He has kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the
    Consent of our legislatures.

      He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to
    the Civil power.

      He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to
    our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent to
    their acts of pretended Legislation:

      For quartering large bodies of armed troops among us:

      For protecting them, by a mock Trial, from punishment for any Murders
    which they should commit on the Inhabitants of these States:

      For cutting off our Trade with all parts of the world:

      For imposing Taxes on us without our Consent:

      For depriving us in many cases, of the benefits of Trial by Jury:

      For transporting us beyond Seas to be tried for pretended offenses:

      For abolishing the free System of English Laws in a neighbouring
    Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlarging
    its Boundaries so as to render it at once an example and fit instrument
    for introducing the same absolute rule into these Colonies:

      For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, and
    altering fundamentally the Forms of our Governments:

      For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves invested
    with power to legislate for us in all cases whatsoever.

      He has abdicated Government here, by declaring us out of his
    Protection and waging War against us.

      He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and
    destroyed the lives of our people.

      He is at this time transporting large Armies of foreign Mercenaries to
    compleat the works of death, desolation and tyranny, already begun with
    circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy scarcely paralleled in the most
    barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the Head of a civilized nation.

      He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas
    to bear Arms against their Country, to become the executioners of their
    friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.

      He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured
    to bring on the inhabitants of our frontiers, the merciless Indian
    Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction
    of all ages, sexes and conditions.

      In every stage of these Oppressions We have Petitioned for Redress in
    the most humble terms: Our repeated Petitions have been answered only by
    repeated injury. A Prince, whose character is thus marked by every act
    which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to be the ruler of a free people.

      Nor have We been wanting in attentions to our Brittish brethren. We
    have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legislature to
    extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction over us. We have reminded them of
    the circumstances of our emigration and settlement here. We have
    appealed to their native justice and magnanimity, and we have conjured
    them by the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations,
    which, would inevitably interrupt our connections and correspondence.
    They too have been deaf to the voice of justice and of consanguinity. We
    must, therefore, acquiesce in the necessity, which denounces our
    Separation, and hold them, as we hold the rest of mankind, Enemies in
    War, in Peace Friends.

      We, therefore, the Representatives of the United States of America, in
    General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world
    for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by Authority
    of the good People of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That
    these United Colonies are, and of Right ought to be Free and Independent
    State; that they are Absolved from all Allegiance to the British Crown,
    and that all political connection between them and the State of Great
    Britain, is and ought to be totally dissolved; and that as Free and
    Independent States, they have full Power to levy War, conclude Peace,
    contract Alliances, establish Commerce, and to do all other Acts and
    Things which Independent States may of right do. And for the support of
    this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine
    Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes and
    our sacred Honor.

            JOHN HANCOCK.

    New Hampshire
      Josiah Bartlett,
      Matthew Thornton.
      Wm. Whipple,
    Massachusetts Bay
      Saml. Adams,
      Robt. Treat Paine,
      John Adams,
      Elbridge Gerry.
    Rhode Island
      Step. Hopkins, 
      William Ellery.
    Connecticut
      Roger Sherman,
      Wm. Williams,
      Sam'el Huntington,
      Oliver Wolcott.
    New York
      Wm. Floyd,
      Frans. Lewis,
      Phil. Livingston,
      Lewis Morris.
    New Jersey
      Richd. Stockton,
      John Hart,
      Jno. Witherspoon,
      Abra. Clark.
      Fras. Hopkinson,
    Pennsylvania
      Robt. Morris,
      Jas. Smith,
      Benjamin Rush,
      Geo. Taylor,
      Benja. Franklin,
      James Wilson,
      John Morton,
      Geo. Ross.
      Geo. Clymer,
    Delaware
      Caesar Rodney,
      Tho. M'Kean.
      Geo. Read,
    Maryland
      Samuel Chase,
      Charles Carroll of
      Wm. Paca,
      Carrollton.
      Thos. Stone,
    Virginia
      George Wythe,
      Thos. Nelson, jr.,
      Richard Henry Lee,
      Francis Lightfoot
      Th. Jefferson,
      Lee,
      Benja. Harrison,
      Carter Braxton.
    North Carolina
      Wm. Hooper,
      John Penn.
      Joseph Hewes,
    South Carolina
      Thos. Heyward,
      Thomas Lynch, Junr.,
      Junr.,
      Arthur Middleton.
      Edward Rutledge,
    Georgia
      Button Gwinnett,
      Geo. Walton.
      Lyman Hall,

    Note - Mr. Ferdinand Jefferson, Keeper of the Rolls in the Department of
    State, at Washington, says: ``The names of the signers are spelt above
    as in the fac-simile of the original, but the punctuation of them is not
    always the same; neither do the names of the States appear in the fac-
    simile of the original. The names of the signers of each State are
    grouped together in the fac-simile of the original, except the name of
    Matthew Thornton, which follows that of Oliver Wolcott.''

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1)The delegates of the United Colonies of New Hampshire; Massachusetts
    Bay; Rhode Island and Providence Plantations; Connecticut; New York; New
    Jersey; Pennsylvania; New Castle, Kent, and Sussex, in Delaware;
    Maryland; Virginia; North Carolina, and South Carolina, In Congress
    assembled at Philadelphia, Resolved on the 10th of May, 1776, to
    recommend to the respective assemblies and conventions of the United
    Colonies, where no government sufficient to the exigencies of their
    affairs had been established, to adopt such a government as should, in
    the opinion of the representatives of the people, best conduce to the
    happiness and safety of their constituents in particular, and of America
    in general. A preamble to this resolution, agreed to on the 15th of May,
    stated the intention to be totally to suppress the exercise of every
    kind of authority under the British crown. On the 7th of June, certain
    resolutions respecting independency were moved and seconded. On the 10th
    of June it was resolved, that a committee should be appointed to prepare
    a declaration to the following effect: ``That the United Colonies are,
    and of right ought to be, free and independent States; that they are
    absolved from all allegiance to the British crown; and that all
    political connection between them and the State of Great Britain is, and
    ought to be, totally dissolved.'' On the preceding day it was determined
    that the committee for preparing the declaration should consist of five,
    and they were chosen accordingly, in the following order: Mr. Jefferson,
    Mr. J. Adams, Mr. Franklin, Mr. Sherman, Mr. R. R. Livingston. On the
    11th of June a resolution was passed to appoint a committee to prepare
    and digest the form of a confederation to be entered into between the
    colonies, and another committee to prepare a plan of treaties to be
    proposed to foreign powers. On the 12th of June, it was resolved, that a
    committee of Congress should be appointed by the name of a board of war
    and ordnance, to consist of five members. On the 25th of June, a
    declaration of the deputies of Pennsylvania, met in provincial
    conference, expressing their willingness to concur in a vote declaring
    the United Colonies free and independent States, was laid before
    Congress and read. On the 28th of June, the committee appointed to
    prepare a declaration of independence brought in a draught, which was
    read, and ordered to lie on the table. On the 1st of July, a resolution
    of the convention of Maryland, passed the 28th of June, authorizing the
    deputies of that colony to concur in declaring the United Colonies free
    and independent States, was laid before Congress and read. On the same
    day Congress resolved itself into a committee of the whole, to take into
    consideration the resolution respecting independency. On the 2d of July,
    a resolution declaring the colonies free and independent States, was
    adopted. A declaration to that effect was, on the same and the following
    days, taken into further consideration. Finally, on the 4th of July, the
    Declaration of Independence was agreed to, engrossed on paper, signed by
    John Hancock as president, and directed to be sent to the several
    assemblies, conventions, and committees, or councils of safety, and to
    the several commanding officers of the continental troops, and to be
    proclaimed in each of the United States, and at the head of the Army. It
    was also ordered to be entered upon the Journals of Congress, and on the
    2d of August, a copy engrossed on parchment was signed by all but one of
    the fifty-six signers whose names are appended to it. That one was
    Matthew Thornton, of New Hampshire, who on taking his seat in November
    asked and obtained the privilege of signing it. Several who signed it on
    the 2d of August were absent when it was adopted on the 4th of July,
    but, approving of it, they thus signified their approbation.
    
    Note - The proof of this document, as published above, was read by Mr.
    Ferdinand Jefferson, the Keeper of the Rolls at the Department of State,
    at Washington, who compared it with the fac-simile of the original in
    his custody. He says: ``In the fac-simile, as in the original, the whole
    instrument runs on without a break, but dashes are mostly inserted. I
    have, in this copy, followed the arrangement of paragraphs adopted in
    the publication of the Declaration in the newspaper of John Dunlap, and
    as printed by him for the Congress, which printed copy is inserted in
    the original Journal of the old Congress. The same paragraphs are also
    made by the author, in the original draught preserved in the Department
    of State.''

-End-


-CITE-
    ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION - 1777                        01/03/2007

-EXPCITE-
    ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION - 1777

-HEAD-
    ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION - 1777

-MISC1-
            ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION - 1777 (!1)
        TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME, WE THE UNDERSIGNED
      DELEGATES OF THE STATES AFFIXED TO OUR NAMES SEND GREETING


      Whereas the Delegates of the United States of America in Congress
    assembled did on the fifteenth day of November in the Year of our Lord
    One Thousand Seven Hundred and Seventyseven, and in the Second Year of
    the Independence of America agree to certain articles of Confederation
    and perpetual Union between the States of Newhampshire, Massachusetts-
    bay, Rhodeisland and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New
    Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina,
    South-Carolina and Georgia in the Words following, viz.


     ''ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATION AND PERPETUAL UNION BETWEEN THE STATES
       OF NEWHAMPSHIRE, MASSACHUSETTSBAY, RHODEISLAND AND PROVIDENCE
       PLANTATIONS, CONNECTICUT, NEW-YORK, NEW-JERSEY, PENNSYLVANIA,
      DELAWARE, MARYLAND, VIRGINIA, NORTH-CAROLINA, SOUTH-CAROLINA AND
                               GEORGIA.

    Article I. The stile of this confederacy shall be ``The United States of
    America.''

    Article II. Each State retains its sovereignty, freedom and
    independence, and every power, jurisdiction and right, which is not by
    this confederation expressly delegated to the United States, in Congress
    assembled.

    Article III. The said States hereby severally enter into a firm league
    of friendship with each other, for their common defence, the security of
    their liberties, and their mutual and general welfare, binding
    themselves to assist each other, against all force offered to, or
    attacks made upon them, or any of them, on account of religion,
    sovereignty, trade, or any other pretence whatever.

    Article IV. The better to secure and perpetuate mutual friendship and
    intercourse among the people of the different States in this Union, the
    free inhabitants of each of these States, paupers, vagabonds and
    fugitives from justice excepted, shall be entitled to all privileges and
    immunities of free citizens in the several States; and the people of
    each State shall have free ingress and regress to and from any other
    State, and shall enjoy therein all the privileges of trade and commerce,
    subject to the same duties, impositions and restrictions as the
    inhabitants thereof respectively, provided that such restrictions shall
    not extend so far as to prevent the removal of property imported into
    any State, to any other State of which the owner is an inhabitant;
    provided also that no imposition, duties or restriction shall be laid by
    any State, on the property of the United States, or either of them.

    If any person guilty of, or charged with treason, felony, or other high
    misdemeanor in any State, shall flee from justice, and be found in any
    of the United States, he shall upon demand of the Governor or Executive
    power, of the State from which he fled, be delivered up and removed to
    the State having jurisdiction of his offence.

    Full faith and credit shall be given in each of these States to the
    records, acts and judicial proceedings of the courts and magistrates of
    every other State.

    Article V. For the more convenient management of the general interests
    of the United States, delegates shall be annually appointed in such
    manner as the legislature of each State shall direct, to meet in
    Congress on the first Monday in November, in every year, with a power
    reserved to each State, to recall its delegates, or any of them, at any
    time within the year, and to send others in their stead, for the
    remainder of the year.

    No State shall be represented in Congress by less than two, nor by more
    than seven members; and no person shall be capable of being a delegate
    for more than three years in any term of six years; nor shall any
    person, being a delegate, be capable of holding any office under the
    United States, for which he, or another for his benefit receives any
    salary, fees or emolument of any kind.

    Each State shall maintain its own delegates in a meeting of the States,
    and while they act as members of the committee of the States.

    In determining questions in the United States, in Congress assembled,
    each State shall have one vote.

    Freedom of speech and debate in Congress shall not be impeached or
    questioned in any court, or place out of Congress, and the members of
    Congress shall be protected in their persons from arrests and
    imprisonments, during the time of their going to and from, and
    attendance on Congress, except for treason, felony, or breach of the
    peace.

    Article VI. No State without the consent of the United States in
    Congress assembled, shall send any embassy to, or receive any embassy
    from, or enter into any conference, agreement, alliance or treaty with
    any king, prince or state; nor shall any person holding any office of
    profit or trust under the United States, or any of them, accept of any
    present, emolument, office or title of any kind whatever from any king,
    prince or foreign state; nor shall the United States in Congress
    assembled, or any of them, grant any title of nobility.

    No two or more States shall enter into any treaty, confederation or
    alliance whatever between them, without the consent of the United States
    in Congress assembled, specifying accurately the purposes for which the
    same is to be entered into, and how long it shall continue.

    No State shall lay any imposts or duties, which may interfere with any
    stipulations in treaties, entered into by the United States in Congress
    assembled, with any king, prince or state, in pursuance of any treaties
    already proposed by Congress, to the courts of France and Spain.

    No vessels of war shall be kept up in time of peace by any State, except
    such number only, as shall be deemed necessary by the United States in
    Congress assembled, for the defence of such State, or its trade; nor
    shall any body of forces be kept up by any State, in time of peace,
    except such number only, as in the judgment of the United States, in
    Congress assembled, shall be deemed requisite to garrison the forts
    necessary for the defence of such State; but every State shall always
    keep up a well regulated and disciplined militia, sufficiently armed and
    accoutered, and shall provide and constantly have ready for use, in
    public stores, a due number of field pieces and tents, and a proper
    quantity of arms, ammunition and camp equipage.

    No State shall engage in any war without the consent of the United
    States in Congress assembled, unless such State be actually invaded by
    enemies, or shall have received certain advice of a resolution being
    formed by some nation of Indians to invade such State, and the danger is
    so imminent as not to admit of a delay, till the United States in
    Congress assembled can be consulted: nor shall any State grant
    commissions to any ships or vessels of war, nor letters of marque or
    reprisal, except it be after a declaration of war by the United States
    in Congress assembled, and then only against the kingdom or state and
    the subjects thereof, against which war has been so declared, and under
    such regulations as shall be established by the United States in
    Congress assembled, unless such State be infested by pirates, in which
    case vessels of war may be fitted out for that occasion, and kept so
    long as the danger shall continue or until the United States in Congress
    assembled shall determine otherwise.

    Article VII. When land-forces are raised by any State for the common
    defence, all officers of or under the rank of colonel, shall be
    appointed by the Legislature of each State respectively by whom such
    forces shall be raised, or in such manner as such State shall direct,
    and all vacancies shall be filled up by the State which first made the
    appointment.

    Article VIII. All charges of war, and all other expenses that shall be
    incurred for the common defence or general welfare, and allowed by the
    United States in Congress assembled, shall be defrayed out of a common
    treasury, which shall be supplied by the several States, in proportion
    to the value of all land within each State, granted to or surveyed for
    any person, as such land and the buildings and improvements thereon
    shall be estimated according to such mode as the United States in
    Congress assembled, shall from time to time direct and appoint.

    The taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the
    authority and direction of the Legislatures of the several States within
    the time agreed upon by the United States in Congress assembled.

    Article IX. The United States in Congress assembled, shall have the sole
    and exclusive right and power of determining on peace and war, except in
    the cases mentioned in the sixth article_of sending and receiving
    ambassadors_entering into treaties and alliances, provided that no
    treaty of commerce shall be made whereby the legislative power of the
    respective States shall be restrained from imposing such imposts and
    duties on foreigners, as their own people are subjected to, or from
    prohibiting the exportation or importation of any species of goods or
    commodities whatsoever_of establishing rules for deciding in all cases,
    what captures on land or water shall be legal, and in what manner prizes
    taken by land or naval forces in the service of the United States shall
    be divided or appropriated_of granting letters of marque and reprisal in
    times of peace_appointing courts for the trial of piracies and felonies
    committed on the high seas and establishing courts for receiving and
    determining finally appeals in all cases of captures, provided that no
    member of Congress shall be appointed a judge of any of the said courts.

    The United States in Congress assembled shall also be the last resort on
    appeal in all disputes and differences now subsisting or that hereafter
    may arise between two or more States concerning boundary, jurisdiction
    or any other cause whatever; which authority shall always be exercised
    in the manner following. Whenever the legislative or executive authority
    or lawful agent of any State in controversy with another shall present a
    petition to Congress, stating the matter in question and praying for a
    hearing, notice thereof shall be given by order of Congress to the
    legislative or executive authority of the other State in controversy,
    and a day assigned for the appearance of the parties by their lawful
    agents, who shall then be directed to appoint by joint consent,
    commissioners or judges to constitute a court for hearing and
    determining the matter in question: but if they cannot agree, Congress
    shall name three persons out of each of the United States, and from the
    list of such persons each party shall alternately strike out one, the
    petitioners beginning, until the number shall be reduced to thirteen;
    and from that number not less than seven, nor more than nine names as
    Congress shall direct, shall in the presence of Congress be drawn out by
    lot, and the persons whose names shall be so drawn or any five of them,
    shall be commissioners or judges, to hear and finally determine the
    controversy, so always as a major part of the judges who shall hear the
    cause shall agree in the determination: and if either party shall
    neglect to attend at the day appointed, without showing reasons, which
    Congress shall judge sufficient, or being present shall refuse to
    strike, the Congress shall proceed to nominate three persons out of each
    State, and the Secretary of Congress shall strike in behalf of such
    party absent or refusing; and the judgment and sentence of the court to
    be appointed, in the manner before prescribed, shall be final and
    conclusive; and if any of the parties shall refuse to submit to the
    authority of such court, or to appear or defend their claim or cause,
    the court shall nevertheless proceed to pronounce sentence, or judgment,
    which shall in like manner be final and decisive, the judgment or
    sentence and other proceedings being in either case transmitted to
    Congress, and lodged among the acts of Congress for the security of the
    parties concerned: provided that every commissioner, before he sits in
    judgment, shall take an oath to be administered by one of the judges of
    the supreme or superior court of the State where the cause shall be
    tried, ``well and truly to hear and determine the matter in question,
    according to the best of his judgment, without favour, affection or hope
    of reward:'' provided also that no State shall be deprived of territory
    for the benefit of the United States.

    All controversies concerning the private right of soil claimed under
    different grants of two or more States, whose jurisdiction as they may
    respect such lands, and the States which passed such grants are
    adjusted, the said grants or either of them being at the same time
    claimed to have originated antecedent to such settlement of
    jurisdiction, shall on the petition of either party to the Congress of
    the United States, be finally determined as near as may be in the same
    manner as is before prescribed for deciding disputes respecting
    territorial jurisdiction between different States.

    The United States in Congress assembled shall also have the sole and
    exclusive right and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin
    struck by their own authority, or by that of the respective
    States._fixing the standard of weights and measures throughout the
    United States._regulating the trade and managing all affairs with the
    Indians, not members of any of the States, provided that the legislative
    right of any State within its own limits be not infringed or
    violated_establishing and regulating post-offices from one State to
    another, throughout all the United States, and exacting such postage on
    the papers passing thro' the same as may be requisite to defray the
    expenses of the said office_appointing all officers of the land forces,
    in the service of the United States, excepting regimental
    officers_appointing all the officers of the naval forces, and
    commissioning all officers whatever in the service of the United
    States_making rules for the government and regulation of the said land
    and naval forces, and directing their operations.

    The United States in Congress assembled shall have authority to appoint
    a committee, to sit in the recess of Congress, to be denominated ``a
    Committee of the States'', and to consist of one delegate from each
    State; and to appoint such other committees and civil officers as may be
    necessary for managing the general affairs of the United States under
    their direction_to appoint one of their number to preside, provided that
    no person be allowed to serve in the office of president more than one
    year in any term of three years; to ascertain the necessary sums of
    money to be raised for the service of the United States, and to
    appropriate and apply the same for defraying the public expenses_to
    borrow money, or emit bills on the credit of the United States,
    transmitting every half year to the respective States an account of the
    sums of money so borrowed or emitted,_to build and equip a navy_to agree
    upon the number of land forces, and to make requisitions from each State
    for its quota, in proportion to the number of white inhabitants in such
    State; which requisition shall be binding, and thereupon the Legislature
    of each State shall appoint the regimental officers, raise the men and
    cloath, arm and equip them in a soldier like manner, at the expense of
    the United States; and the officers and men so cloathed, armed and
    equipped shall march to the place appointed, and within the time agreed
    on by the United States in Congress assembled: but if the United States
    in Congress assembled shall, on consideration of circumstances judge
    proper that any State should not raise men, or should raise a smaller
    number than its quota, and that any other State should raise a greater
    number of men than the quota thereof, such extra number shall be raised,
    officered, cloathed, armed and equipped in the same manner as the quota
    of such State, unless the legislature of such State shall judge that
    such extra number cannot be safely spared out of the same, in which case
    they shall raise, officer, cloath, arm and equip as many of such extra
    number as they judge can be safely spared. And the officers and men so
    cloathed, armed and equipped, shall march to the place appointed, and
    within the time agreed on by the United States in Congress assembled.

    The United States in Congress assembled shall never engage in a war, nor
    grant letters of marque and reprisal in time of peace, nor enter into
    any treaties or alliances, nor coin money, nor regulate the value
    thereof, nor ascertain the sums and expenses necessary for the defence
    and welfare of the United States, or any of them, nor emit bills, nor
    borrow money on the credit of the United States, nor appropriate money,
    nor agree upon the number of vessels of war, to be built or purchased,
    or the number of land or sea forces to be raised, nor appoint a
    commander in chief of the army or navy, unless nine States assent to the
    same; nor shall a question on any other point, except for adjourning
    from day to day be determined, unless by the votes of a majority of the
    United States in Congress assembled.

    The Congress of the United States shall have power to adjourn to any
    time within the year, and to any place within the United States, so that
    no period of adjournment be for a longer duration than the space of six
    months, and shall publish the journal of their proceedings monthly,
    except such parts thereof relating to treaties, alliances or military
    operations, as in their judgment require secresy; and the yeas and nays
    of the delegates of each State on any question shall be entered on the
    journal, when it is desired by any delegate; and the delegates of a
    State, or any of them, at his or their request shall be furnished with a
    transcript of the said journal, except such parts as are above excepted,
    to lay before the Legislatures of the several States.

    Article X. The committee of the States, or any nine of them, shall be
    authorized to execute, in the recess of Congress, such of the powers of
    Congress as the United States in Congress assembled, by the consent of
    nine States, shall from time to time think expedient to vest them with;
    provided that no power be delegated to the said committee, for the
    exercise of which, by the articles of confederation, the voice of nine
    States in the Congress of the United States assembled is requisite.

    Article XI. Canada acceding to this confederation, and joining in the
    measures of the United States, shall be admitted into, and entitled to
    all the advantages of this Union: but no other colony shall be admitted
    into the same, unless such admission be agreed to by nine States.

    Article XII. All bills of credit emitted, monies borrowed and debts
    contracted by, or under the authority of Congress, before the assembling
    of the United States, in pursuance of the present confederation, shall
    be deemed and considered as a charge against the United States, for
    payment and satisfaction whereof the said United States, and the public
    faith are hereby solemnly pledged.

    Article XIII. Every State shall abide by the determinations of the
    United States in Congress assembled, on all questions which by this
    confederation are submitted to them. And the articles of this
    confederation shall be inviolably observed by every State, and the Union
    shall be perpetual; nor shall any alteration at any time hereafter be
    made in any of them; unless such alteration be agreed to in a Congress
    of the United States, and be afterwards confirmed by the Legislatures of
    every State.

    And whereas it has pleased the Great Governor of the world to incline
    the hearts of the Legislatures we respectively represent in Congress, to
    approve of, and to authorize us to ratify the said articles of
    confederation and perpetual union. Know ye that we the undersigned
    delegates, by virtue of the power and authority to us given for that
    purpose, do by these presents, in the name and in behalf of our
    respective constituents, fully and entirely ratify and confirm each and
    every of the said articles of confederation and perpetual union, and all
    and singular the matters and things therein contained: and we do further
    solemnly plight and engage the faith of our respective constituents,
    that they shall abide by the determinations of the United States in
    Congress assembled, on all questions, which by the said confederation
    are submitted to them. And that the articles thereof shall be inviolably
    observed by the States we re[s]pectively represent, and that the Union
    shall be perpetual.

    In witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands in Congress. Done at
    Philadelphia in the State of Pennsylvania the ninth day of July in the
    year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy-eight, and in
    the third year of the independence of America.(!2)
    
    On the part & behalf of the State of New Hampshire
     Josiah Bartlett,
     John Wentworth  , Junr.,
    August 8th, 1778.
     On the part and behalf of the State of Massachusetts Bay
     John Hancock,
     Francis Dana,
     Samuel Adams,
     James Lovell,
     Elbridge Gerry,
     Samuel Holten.
    On the part and behalf of the State of Rhode Island and Providence
    Plantations
     William Ellery,
     John Collins.
     Henry Marchant,
    On the part and behalf of the State of Connecticut
     Roger Sherman,
     Titus Hosmer,
     Samuel
     Andrew Adams.
     Huntington,
     Oliver Wolcott,
    On the part and behalf of the State of New York
     Jas. Duane,
     Wm. Duer,
     Fra. Lewis,
     Gouv. Morris.
    On the part and in behalf of the State of New Jersey, Novr. 26,
    1778
     Jno. Witherspoon.
     Nathl. Scudder.
    On the part and behalf of the State of Pennsylvania
     Robt. Morris,
     William Clingan,
     Daniel Roberdeau,
     Joseph Reed  , 22d
     Jona. Bayard
     July, 1778.
     Smith,
    On the part & behalf of the State of Delaware
     Tho. M'Kean  , Feby.
     Nicholas Van Dyke.
     12, 1779.
     John Dickinson,  May 5th, 1779.
    On the part and behalf of the State of Maryland
     John Hanson,
     Daniel Carroll,
     March 1, 1781.
     Mar. 1, 1781.
    On the part and behalf of the State of Virginia
     Richard Henry Lee,
     Jno. Harvie,
     John Banister,
     Francis Lightfoot
     Thomas Adams,
     Lee.
    On the part and behalf of the State of No. Carolina
     John Penn,
     Corns. Harnett,
     July 21st, 1778.
     Jno. Williams.
    On the part & behalf of the State of South Carolina
     Henry Laurens,
     Richd. Hutson,
     William Henry
     Thos. Heyward  , Junr.
     Drayton,
     Jno. Mathews,
    On the part & behalf of the State of Georgia
     Jno. Walton  , 24th
     Edwd. Telfair,
    July, 1778.
     Edwd. Langworthy.

-FOOTNOTE-
      Congress Resolved, on the 11th of June, 1776, that a committee should
    be appointed to prepare and digest the form of a confederation to be
    entered into between the Colonies; and on the day following, after it
    had been determined that the committee should consist of a member from
    each Colony, the following persons were appointed to perform that duty,
    to wit: Mr. Bartlett, Mr. S. Adams, Mr. Hopkins, Mr. Sherman, Mr. R. R.
    Livingston, Mr. Dickinson, Mr. M'Kean, Mr. Stone, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Hewes,
    Mr. E. Rutledge, and Mr. Gwinnett. Upon the report of this committee,
    the subject was, from time to time, debated, until the 15th of November,
    1777, when a copy of the confederation being made out, and sundry
    amendments made in the diction, without altering the sense, the same was
    finally agreed to. Congress, at the same time, directed that the
    articles should be proposed to the legislatures of all the United
    States, to be considered, and if approved of by them, they were advised
    to authorize their delegates to ratify the same in the Congress of the
    United States; which being done, the same should become conclusive.
    Three hundred copies of the Articles of Confederation were ordered to be
    printed for the use of Congress; and on the 17th of November, the form
    of a circular letter to accompany them was brought in by a committee
    appointed to prepare it, and being agreed to, thirteen copies of it were
    ordered to be made out, to be signed by the president and forwarded to
    the several States, with copies of the confederation. On the 29th of
    November ensuing, a committee of three was appointed, to procure a
    translation of the articles to be made into the French language, and to
    report an address to the inhabitants of Canada, &c. On the 26th of June,
    1778, the form of a ratification of the Articles of Confederation was
    adopted, and, it having been engrossed on parchment, it was signed on
    the 9th of July on the part and in behalf of their respective States, by
    the delegates of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and
    Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, Pennsylvania, Virginia,
    and South Carolina, agreeably to the powers vested in them. The
    delegates of North Carolina signed on the 21st of July, those of Georgia
    on the 24th of July, and those of New Jersey on the 26th of November
    following. On the 5th of May, 1779, Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Van Dyke
    signed in behalf of the State of Delaware, Mr. M'Kean having previously
    signed in February, at which time he produced a power to that effect.
    Maryland did not ratify until the year 1781. She had instructed her
    delegates, on the 15th of December, 1778, not to agree to the
    confederation until matters respecting the western lands should be
    settled on principles of equity and sound policy; but, on the 30th of
    January, 1781, finding that the enemies of the country took advantage of
    the circumstance to disseminate opinions of an ultimate dissolution of
    the Union, the legislature of the State passed an act to empower their
    delegates to subscribe and ratify the articles, which was accordingly
    done by Mr. Hanson and Mr. Carroll, on the 1st of March of that year,
    which completed the ratifications of the act; and Congress assembled on
    the 2d of March under the new powers.
    
      Note - The proof of this document, as published above, was read by Mr.
    Ferdinand Jefferson, the Keeper of the Rolls of the Department of State,
    at Washington, who compared it with the original in his custody. He
    says: ``The initial letters of many of the words in the original of this
    instrument are capitals, but as no system appears to have been observed,
    the same words sometimes beginning with a capital and sometimes with a
    small letter, I have thought it best not to undertake to follow the
    original in this particular. Moreover, there are three forms of the
    letter s: the capital S, the small s and the long s, the last being used
    indiscriminately to words that should begin with a capital and those
    that should begin with a small s.''

      (!2)From the circumstances of delegates from the same State having
    signed the Articles of Confederation at different times, as appears by
    the dates, it is probable they affixed their names as they happened to
    be present in Congress, after they had been authorized by their
    constituents.
-End-


-CITE-
    ORDINANCE OF 1787: THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIAL GOVERNMENT    01/03/2007

-EXPCITE-
    ORDINANCE OF 1787: THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIAL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    ORDINANCE OF 1787: THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIAL GOVERNMENT

-MISC1-
       ORDINANCE OF 1787: THE NORTHWEST TERRITORIAL GOVERNMENT
              (THE CONFEDERATE CONGRESS, JULY 13, 1787)
       AN ORDINANCE FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE TERRITORY OF THE UNITED
                  STATES NORTHWEST OF THE RIVER OHIO
                  
      Section 1. Be it ordained by the United States in Congress assembled,
    That the said territory, for the purpose of temporary government, be one
    district, subject, however, to be divided into two districts, as future
    circumstances may, in the opinion of Congress, make it expedient.

      Sec. 2. Be it ordained by the authority aforesaid, That the estates
    both of resident and non-resident proprietors in the said territory,
    dying intestate, shall descent to, and be distributed among, their
    children and the descendants of a deceased child in equal parts, the
    descendants of a deceased child or grandchild to take the share of their
    deceased parent in equal parts among them; and where there shall be no
    children or descendants, then in equal parts to the next of kin, in
    equal degree; and among collaterals, the children of a deceased brother
    or sister of the intestate shall have, in equal parts among them, their
    deceased parent's share; and there shall, in no case, be a distinction
    between kindred of the whole and half blood; saving in all cases to the
    widow of the intestate, her third part of the real estate for life, and
    one-third part of the personal estate; and this law relative to descents
    and dower, shall remain in full force until altered by the legislature
    of the district. And until the governor and judges shall adopt laws as
    hereinafter mentioned, estates in the said territory may be devised or
    bequeathed by wills in writing, signed and sealed by him or her in whom
    the estate may be, (being of full age,) and attested by three witnesses;
    and real estates may be conveyed by lease and release, or bargain and
    sale, signed, sealed, and delivered by the person, being of full age, in
    whom the estate may be, and attested by two witnesses, provided such
    wills be duly proved, and such conveyances be acknowledged, or the
    execution thereof duly proved, and be recorded within one year after
    proper magistrates, courts, and registers, shall be appointed for that
    purpose; and personal property may be transferred by delivery, saving,
    however, to the French and Canadian inhabitants, and other settlers of
    the Kaskaskies, Saint Vincents, and the neighboring villages, who have
    heretofore professed themselves citizens of Virginia, their laws and
    customs now in force among them, relative to the descent and conveyance
    of property.

      Sec. 3. Be it ordained by the authority aforesaid, That there shall be
    appointed, from time to time, by Congress, a governor, whose commission
    shall continue in force for the term of three years, unless sooner
    revoked by Congress; he shall reside in the district, and have a
    freehold estate therein, in one thousand acres of land, while in the
    exercise of his office.

      Sec. 4. There shall be appointed from time to time, by Congress, a
    secretary, whose commission shall continue in force for four years,
    unless sooner revoked; he shall reside in the district, and have a
    freehold estate therein, in five hundred acres of land, while in the
    exercise of his office. It shall be his duty to keep and preserve the
    acts and laws passed by the legislature, and the public records of the
    district, and the proceedings of the governor in his executive
    department, and transmit authentic copies of such acts and proceedings
    every six months to the Secretary of Congress. There shall also be
    appointed a court, to consist of three judges, any two of whom to form a
    court, who shall have a common-law jurisdiction, and reside in the
    district, and have each therein a freehold estate, in five hundred acres
    of land, while in the exercise of their offices; and their commissions
    shall continue in force during good behavior.

      Sec. 5. The governor and judges, or a majority of them, shall adopt
    and publish in the district such laws of the original States, criminal
    and civil, as may be necessary, and best suited to the circumstances of
    the district, and report them to Congress from time to time, which laws
    shall be in force in the district until the organization of the general
    assembly therein, unless disapproved of by Congress; but afterwards the
    legislature shall have authority to alter them as they shall think fit.

      Sec. 6. The governor, for the time being, shall be commander-in-chief
    of the militia, appoint and commission all officers in the same below
    the rank of general officers; all general officers shall be appointed
    and commissioned by Congress.

      Sec. 7. Previous to the organization of the general assembly the
    governor shall appoint such magistrates, and other civil officers, in
    each county or township, as he shall find necessary for the preservation
    of the peace and good order in the same. After the general assembly
    shall be organized the powers and duties of magistrates and other civil
    officers shall be regulated and defined by the said assembly; but all
    magistrates and other civil officers, not herein otherwise directed,
    shall, during the continuance of this temporary government, be appointed
    by the governor.

      Sec. 8. For the prevention of crimes and injuries, the laws to be
    adopted or made shall have force in all parts of the district, and for
    the execution of process, criminal and civil, the governor shall make
    proper divisions thereof; and he shall proceed, from time to time, as
    circumstances may require, to lay out the parts of the district in which
    the Indian titles shall have been extinguished, into counties and
    townships, subject, however, to such alterations as may thereafter be
    made by the legislature.

      Sec. 9. So soon as there shall be five thousand free male inhabitants,
    of full age, in the district, upon giving proof thereof to the governor,
    they shall receive authority, with time and place, to elect
    representatives from their counties or townships, to represent them in
    the general assembly: Provided, That for every five hundred free male
    inhabitants there shall be one representative, and so on, progressively,
    with the number of free male inhabitants, shall the right of
    representation increase, until the number of representatives shall
    amount to twenty-five; after which the number and proportion of
    representatives shall be regulated by the legislature: Provided, That no
    person be eligible or qualified to act as a representative, unless he
    shall have been a citizen of one of the United States three years, and
    be a resident in the district, or unless he shall have resided in the
    district three years; and, in either case, shall likewise hold in his
    own right, in fee-simple, two hundred acres of land within the same:
    Provided also, That a freehold in fifty acres of land in the district,
    having been a citizen of one of the States, and being resident in the
    district, or the like freehold and two years' residence in the district,
    shall be necessary to qualify a man as an elector of a representative.

      Sec. 10. The representatives thus elected shall serve for the term of
    two years; and in case of the death of a representative, or removal from
    office, the governor shall issue a writ to the county or township, for
    which he was a member, to elect another in his stead, to serve for the
    residue of the term.

      Sec. 11. The general assembly or legislature, shall consist of the
    governor, legislative counsel, and a house of representatives. The
    legislative council shall consist of five members, to continue in office
    five years, unless sooner removed by Congress; any three of whom to be a
    quorum; and the members of the council shall be nominated and appointed
    in the following manner, to wit: As soon as representatives shall be
    elected the governor shall appoint a time and place for them to meet
    together, and when met they shall nominate ten persons, resident in the
    district, and each possessed of a freehold in five hundred acres of
    land, and return their names to Congress, five of whom Congress shall
    appoint and commission to serve as aforesaid; and whenever a vacancy
    shall happen in the council, by death or removal from office, the house
    of representatives shall nominate two persons, qualified as aforesaid,
    for each vacancy, and return their names to Congress, one of whom
    Congress shall appoint and commission for the residue of the term; and
    every five years, four months at least before the expiration of the time
    of service of the members of the council, the said house shall nominate
    ten persons, qualified as aforesaid, and return their names to Congress,
    five of whom Congress shall appoint and commission to serve as members
    of the council five years, unless sooner removed. And the governor,
    legislative council, and house of representatives shall have authority
    to make laws in all cases for the good government of the district, not
    repugnant to the principles and articles in this ordinance established
    and declared. And all bills, having passed by a majority in the house,
    and by a majority in the council, shall be referred to the governor for
    his assent; but no bill, or legislative act whatever, shall be of any
    force without his assent. The governor shall have power to convene,
    prorogue, and dissolve the general assembly when, in his opinion, it
    shall be expedient.

      Sec. 12. The governor, judges, legislative council, secretary, and
    such other officers as Congress shall appoint in the district, shall
    take an oath or affirmation of fidelity, and of office; the governor
    before the President of Congress, and all other officers before the
    governor. As soon as a legislature shall be formed in the district, the
    council and house assembled, in one room, shall have authority, by joint
    ballot, to elect a delegate to Congress, who shall have a seat in
    Congress with a right of debating, but not of voting, during this
    temporary government.

      Sec. 13. And for extending the fundamental principles of civil and
    religious liberty, which form the basis whereon these republics, their
    laws and constitutions, are erected; to fix and establish those
    principles as the basis of all laws, constitutions, and governments,
    which forever hereafter shall be formed in the said territory; to
    provide, also, for the establishment of States, and permanent government
    therein, and for their admission to a share in the Federal councils on
    an equal footing with the original States, at as early periods as may be
    consistent with the general interest:

      Sec. 14. It is hereby ordained and declared, by the authority
    aforesaid, that the following articles shall be considered as articles
    of compact, between the original States and the people and States in the
    said territory, and forever remain unalterable, unless by common
    consent, to wit:
      
                                 ARTICLE I
    No person, demeaning himself in a peaceable and orderly manner, shall
    ever be molested on account of his mode of worship, or religious
    sentiments, in the said territories.
      
                                 ARTICLE II
    The inhabitants of the said territory shall always be entitled to the
    benefits of the writs of habeas corpus, and of the trial by jury; of
    a proportionate representation of the people in the legislature, and of
    judicial proceedings according to the course of the common law. All
    persons shall be bailable, unless for capital offences, where the proof
    shall be evident, or the presumption great. All fines shall be moderate;
    and no cruel or unusual punishments shall be inflicted. No man shall be
    deprived of his liberty or property, but by the judgment of his peers,
    or the law of the land, and should the public exigencies make it
    necessary, for the common preservation, to take any person's property,
    or to demand his particular services, full compensation shall be paid
    for the same. And, in the just preservation of rights and property, it
    is understood and declared, that no law ought ever to be made or have
    force in the said territory, that shall, in any manner whatever,
    interfere with or affect private contracts, or engagements, bona
    fide, and without fraud previously formed.
      
                                ARTICLE III
    Religion, morality, and knowledge being necessary to good government and
    the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall
    forever be encouraged. The utmost good faith shall always be observed
    towards the Indians; their lands and property shall never be taken from
    them without their consent; and in their property, rights, and liberty
    they never shall be invaded or disturbed, unless in just and lawful wars
    authorized by Congress; but laws founded in justice and humanity shall,
    from time to time, be made, for preventing wrongs being done to them,
    and for preserving peace and friendship with them.
      
                                 ARTICLE IV
    The said territory, and the States which may be formed therein, shall
    forever remain a part of this confederacy of the United States of
    America, subject to the Articles of Confederation, and to such
    alterations therein as shall be constitutionally made; and to all the
    acts and ordinances of the United States in Congress assembled,
    conformable thereto. The inhabitants and settlers in the said territory
    shall be subject to pay a part of the Federal debts, contracted, or to
    be contracted, and a proportional part of the expenses of government to
    be apportioned on them by Congress, according to the same common rule
    and measure by which apportionments thereof shall be made on the other
    States; and the taxes for paying their proportion shall be laid and
    levied by the authority and direction of the legislatures of the
    district, or districts, or new States, as in the original States, within
    the time agreed upon by the United States in Congress assembled. The
    legislatures of those districts, or new States, shall never interfere
    with the primary disposal of the soil by the United States in Congress
    assembled, nor with any regulations Congress may find necessary for
    securing the title in such soil to the bona fide purchasers. No tax
    shall be imposed on lands the property of the United States; and in no
    case shall non-resident proprietors be taxed higher than residents. The
    navigable waters leading into the Mississippi and Saint Lawrence, and
    the carrying places between the same, shall be common highways, and
    forever free, as well to the inhabitants of the said territory as to the
    citizens of the United States, and those of any other States that may be
    admitted into the confederacy, without any tax, impost, or duty
    therefor.
      
                                 ARTICLE V
    There shall be formed in the said territory not less than three nor more
    than five States; and the boundaries of the States, as soon as Virginia
    shall alter her act of cession and consent to the same, shall become
    fixed and established as follows, to wit: The western State, in the said
    territory, shall be bounded by the Mississippi, the Ohio, and the Wabash
    Rivers; a direct line drawn from the Wabash and Post Vincents, due
    north, to the territorial line between the United States and Canada; and
    by the said territorial line to the Lake of the Woods and Mississippi.
    The middle State shall be bounded by the said direct line, the Wabash
    from Post Vincents to the Ohio, by the Ohio, by a direct line drawn due
    north from the mouth of the Great Miami to the said territorial line,
    and by the said territorial line. The eastern State shall be bounded by
    the last-mentioned direct line, the Ohio, Pennsylvania, and the said
    territorial line: Provided, however, And it is further understood and
    declared, that the boundaries of these three States shall be subject so
    far to be altered, that, if Congress shall hereafter find it expedient,
    they shall have authority to form one or two States in that part of the
    said territory which lies north of an east and west line drawn through
    the southerly bend or extreme of Lake Michigan. And whenever any of the
    said States shall have sixty thousand free inhabitants therein, such
    State shall be admitted, by its delegates, into the Congress of the
    United States, on an equal footing with the original States, in all
    respects whatever; and shall be at liberty to form a permanent
    constitution and State government: Provided, The constitution and
    government, so to be formed, shall be republican, and in conformity to
    the principles contained in these articles, and, so far as it can be
    consistent with the general interest of the confederacy, such admission
    shall be allowed at an earlier period, and when there may be a less
    number of free inhabitants in the State than sixty thousand.
      
                                 ARTICLE VI
    There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said
    territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes, whereof the party
    shall have been duly convicted: Provided always, That any person
    escaping into the same, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed
    in any one of the original States, such fugitive may be lawfully
    reclaimed, and conveyed to the person claiming his or her labor or
    service as aforesaid.
      
    Be it ordained by the authority aforesaid, That the resolutions of the
    23d of April, 1784, relative to the subject of this ordinance, be, and
    the same are hereby, repealed, and declared null and void.
      
    Done by the United States, in Congress assembled, the 13th day of July,
    in the year of our Lord 1787, and of their sovereignty and independence
    the twelfth.
-End-



-CITE-
    CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA - 1787         01/03/2007

-EXPCITE-
    CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA - 1787

-HEAD-
    CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA - 1787

-MISC1-

           CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA - 1787(!1)

    We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect
      Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the
      common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings
      of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish
      this Constitution for the United States of America.

                                ARTICLE. I.
      Section 1. All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a
    Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and
    House of Representatives.


      SECTION. 2. (1)The House of Representatives shall be composed of
    Members chosen every second Year by the People of the several States,
    and the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite
    for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.
      (2)No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to
    the Age of twenty five Years, and been seven Years a Citizen of the
    United States, and who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that
    State in which he shall be chosen.
      (3)Representatives and direct Taxes shall be apportioned among the
    several States which may be included within this Union, according to
    their respective Numbers, which shall be determined by adding to the
    whole Number of free Persons, including those bound to Service for a
    Term of Years, and excluding Indians not taxed, three fifths of all
    other Persons.(!2) The actual Enumeration shall be made within three
    Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and
    within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall
    by Law direct. The Number of Representatives shall not exceed one for
    every thirty Thousand, but each State shall have at Least one
    Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of
    New Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse three, Massachusetts eight,
    Rhode-Island and Providence Plantations one, Connecticut five, New-York
    six, New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, Delaware one, Maryland six,
    Virginia ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia
    three.
      (4)When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the
    Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such
    Vacancies.
      (5)The House of Representatives shall chuse their Speaker and other
    Officers; and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment.

      SECTION.3. (1)The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two
    Senators from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof,(!3) for
    six Years; and each Senator shall have one Vote.
      (2)Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first
    Election, they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes.
    The Seats of the Senators of the first Class shall be vacated at the
    Expiration of the second Year, of the second Class at the Expiration of
    the fourth Year, and of the third Class at the Expiration of the sixth
    Year, so that one third may be chosen every second Year; and if
    Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the Recess of the
    Legislature of any State, the Executive thereof may make temporary
    Appointments until the next Meeting of the Legislature, which shall then
    fill such Vacancies.(!4)
      (3)No Person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained to the Age
    of thirty Years, and been nine Years a Citizen of the United States, and
    who shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he
    shall be chosen.
      (4)The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the
    Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.
      (5)The Senate shall chuse their other Officers, and also a President pro
    tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise
    the Office of President of the United States.
      (6)The Senate shall have the sole Power to try all Impeachments. When
    sitting for that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the
    President of the United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall
    preside: And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two
    thirds of the Members present.
      (7)Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to
    removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office
    of honor, Trust or Profit under the United States: but the Party
    convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial,
    Judgment and Punishment, according to Law.

      SECTION. 4. (1)The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for
    Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the
    Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or
    alter such Regulations, except as to the Places of chusing Senators.
      (2)The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such
    Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December,(!5) unless they shall
    by Law appoint a different Day.

      SECTION. 5. (1)Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns
    and Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall
    constitute a Quorum to do Business; but a smaller Number may adjourn
    from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the Attendance of
    absent Members, in such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House
    may provide.
      (2)Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its
    Members for disorderly Behaviour, and, with the Concurrence of two
    thirds, expel a Member.
      (3)Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to
    time publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment
    require Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on
    any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be
    entered on the Journal.
      (4)Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the
    Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other
    Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

      SECTION. 6. (1)The Senators and Representatives shall receive a
    Compensation for their Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out
    of the Treasury of the United States.\6\N They shall in all Cases,
    except Treason, Felony and Breach of the Peace, be privileged from
    Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of their respective
    Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for any Speech
    or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other
    Place.
      (2)No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was
    elected, be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the
    United States, which shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof
    shall have been encreased during such time; and no Person holding any
    Office under the United States, shall be a Member of either House during
    his Continuance in Office.

      SECTION. 7. (1)All Bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the
    House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or concur with
    Amendments as on other Bills.
      (2)Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and
    the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President
    of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he
    shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall
    have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their
    Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two
    thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent,
    together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall
    likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House,
    it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses
    shall be determined by yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons
    voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each
    House respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President
    within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to
    him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it,
    unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which
    Case it shall not be a Law.
      (3)Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the
    Senate and House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a
    question of Adjournment) shall be presented to the President of the
    United States; and before the Same shall take Effect, shall be approved
    by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two thirds of
    the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the Rules and
    Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.

      SECTION. 8. (1)The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
    Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common
    Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
    Imposts and Excises shall be uniform throughout the United States;
      (2)To borrow Money on the credit of the United States;
      (3)To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several
    States, and with the Indian Tribes;
      (4)To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on
    the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;
      (5)To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and
    fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
      (6)To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and
    current Coin of the United States;
      (7)To establish Post Offices and post Roads;
      (8)To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for
    limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their
    respective Writings and Discoveries;
      (9)To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;
      (10)To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high
    Seas, and Offences against the Law of Nations;
      (11)To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules
    concerning Captures on Land and Water;
      (12)To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that
    Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years;
      (13)To provide and maintain a Navy;
      (14)To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and
    naval Forces;
      (15)To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the
    Union, suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;
      (16)To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia,
    and for governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of
    the United States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment
    of the Officers, and the Authority of training the Militia according to
    the discipline prescribed by Congress;
      (17)To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such
    District (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of
    particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of
    the Government of the United States, and to exercise like Authority over
    all Places purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in
    which the Same shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals,
    dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings;_And
      (18)To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying
    into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
    Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any
    Department or Officer thereof.

      SECTION. 9. (1)The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of
    the States now existing shall think proper to admit, shall not be
    prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand eight hundred
    and eight, but a Tax or duty may be imposed on such Importation, not
    exceeding ten dollars for each Person.
      (2)The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended,
    unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may
    require it.
      (3)No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.
      (4)No Capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in
    Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be
    taken.(!7)
      (5)No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.
      (6)No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue
    to the Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound
    to, or from, one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in
    another.
      (7)No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of
    Appropriations made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the
    Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from
    time to time.
      (8)No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no
    Person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without
    the Consent of the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office,
    or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince, or foreign State.

      SECTION. 10. (1)No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or
    Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit
    Bills of Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in
    Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law
    impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.
      (2)No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts
    or Duties on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary
    for executing it's inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties
    and Imposts, laid by any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the
    Use of the Treasury of the United States; and all such Laws shall be
    subject to the Revision and Controul of the Congress.
      (3)No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of
    Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any
    Agreement or Compact with another State, or with a foreign Power, or
    engage in War, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent Danger as
    will not admit of delay.

                                ARTICLE. II.
 
      SECTION. 1. (1)The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the
    United States of America. He shall hold his Office during the Term of
    four Years, and, together with the Vice President, chosen for the same
    Term, be elected, as follows
      (2)Each State shall appoint, in such Manner as the Legislature thereof
    may direct, a Number of Electors, equal to the whole Number of Senators
    and Representatives to which the State may be entitled in the Congress:
    but no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust
    or Profit under the United States, shall be appointed an Elector.
      (3)The Electors shall meet in their respective States, and vote by
    Ballot for two Persons, of whom one at least shall not be an Inhabitant
    of the same State with themselves. And they shall make a List of all the
    Persons voted for, and of the Number of Votes for each; which List they
    shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat of the
    Government of the United States, directed to the President of the
    Senate. The President of the Senate shall, in the Presence of the Senate
    and House of Representatives, open all the Certificates, and the Votes
    shall then be counted. The Person having the greatest Number of Votes
    shall be the President, if such Number be a Majority of the whole Number
    of Electors appointed; and if there be more than one who have such
    Majority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then the House of
    Representatives shall immediately chuse by Ballot one of them for
    President; and if no Person have a Majority, then from the five highest
    on the List the said House shall in like Manner chuse the President. But
    in chusing the President, the Votes shall be taken by States, the
    Representation from each State having one Vote; A quorum for this
    Purpose shall consist of a Member or Members from two thirds of the
    States, and a Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice.
    In every Case, after the Choice of the President, the Person having the
    greatest Number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President.
    But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes, the Senate
    shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.(!8)
      (4)The Congress may determine the Time of chusing the Electors, and the
    Day on which they shall give their Votes; which Day shall be the same
    throughout the United States.
      (5)No Person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United
    States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be
    eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be
    eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty
    five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States.
      (6)In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death,
    Resignation, or Inability to discharge the Powers and Duties of the said
    Office,(!9) the Same shall devolve on the Vice President, and the
    Congress may by Law provide for the Case of Removal, Death, Resignation
    or Inability, both of the President and Vice President, declaring what
    Officer shall then act as President, and such Officer shall act
    accordingly, until the Disability be removed, or a President shall be
    elected.
      (7)The President shall, at stated Times, receive for his Services, a
    Compensation, which shall neither be encreased nor diminished during the
    Period for which he shall have been elected, and he shall not receive
    within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of
    them.
      (8)Before he enter on the Execution of his Office, he shall take the
    following Oath or Affirmation:_``I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I
    will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States,
    and will to the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the
    Constitution of the United States.''

      SECTION. 2. (1)The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and
    Navy of the United States, and of the Militia of the several States,
    when called into the actual Service of the United States; he may require
    the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the
    executive Departments, upon any Subject relating to the Duties of their
    respective Offices, and he shall have Power to grant Reprieves and
    Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of
    Impeachment.
      (2)He shall have Power, by and with the Advice and Consent of the
    Senate, to make Treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present
    concur; and he shall nominate, and by and with the Advice and Consent of
    the Senate, shall appoint Ambassadors, other public Ministers and
    Consuls, Judges of the supreme Court, and all other Officers of the
    United States, whose Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for,
    and which shall be established by Law: but the Congress may by Law vest
    the Appointment of such inferior Officers, as they think proper, in the
    President alone, in the Courts of Law, or in the Heads of Departments.
      (3)The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may
    happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which
    shall expire at the End of their next Session.

      SECTION. 3. He shall from time to time give to the Congress Information
    of the State of the Union, and recommend to their Consideration such
    Measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient; he may, on
    extraordinary Occasions, convene both Houses, or either of them, and in
    Case of Disagreement between them, with Respect to the Time of
    Adjournment, he may adjourn them to such Time as he shall think proper;
    he shall receive Ambassadors and other public Ministers; he shall take
    Care that the Laws be faithfully executed, and shall Commission all the
    Officers of the United States.

      SECTION. 4. The President, Vice President and all civil Officers of the
    United States, shall be removed from Office on Impeachment for, and
    Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes and Misdemeanors.

                               ARTICLE. III.

      SECTION. 1. The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in
    one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from
    time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and
    inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behaviour, and
    shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services, a Compensation,
    which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office.

      SECTION. 2. (1)The judicial Power shall extend to all Cases, in Law and
    Equity, arising under this Constitution, the Laws of the United States,
    and Treaties made, or which shall be made, under their Authority; - to all
    Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls; - to all
    Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;_to Controversies to which
    the United States shall be a Party;_to Controversies between two or more
    States;_between a State and Citizens of another State;(!10) - between
    Citizens of different States,_between Citizens of the same State
    claiming Lands under Grants of different States, and between a State, or
    the Citizens thereof, and foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
      (2)In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, other public Ministers and
    Consuls, and those in which a State shall be Party, the supreme Court
    shall have original Jurisdiction. In all the other Cases before
    mentioned, the supreme Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as
    to Law and Fact, with such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the
    Congress shall make.
      (3)The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by
    Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said Crimes
    shall have been committed; but when not committed within any State, the
    Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress may by Law have
    directed.

      SECTION. 3. (1)Treason against the United States, shall consist only in
    levying War against them, or in adhering to their Enemies, giving them
    Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the
    Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act, or on Confession in
    open Court.
      (2)The Congress shall have Power to declare the Punishment of Treason,
    but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood, or
    Forfeiture except during the Life of the Person attainted.

                                ARTICLE. IV.

      SECTION. 1. Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the
    public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And
    the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such
    Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof.

      SECTION. 2. (1)The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all
    Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.
      (2)A Person charged in any State with Treason, Felony, or other Crime,
    who shall flee from Justice, and be found in another State, shall on
    Demand of the executive Authority of the State from which he fled, be
    delivered up, to be removed to the State having Jurisdiction of the
    Crime.
      (3)No Person held to Service or Labour in one State, under the Laws
    thereof, escaping into another, shall, in Consequence of any Law or
    Regulation therein, be discharged from such Service or Labour, but shall
    be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may
    be due.(!11)

      SECTION. 3. (1)New States may be admitted by the Congress into this
    Union; but no new State shall be formed or erected within the
    Jurisdiction of any other State; nor any State be formed by the Junction
    of two or more States, or Parts of States, without the Consent of the
    Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress.
      (2)The Congress shall have Power to dispose of and make all needful
    Rules and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property
    belonging to the United States; and nothing in this Constitution shall
    be so construed as to Prejudice any Claims of the United States, or of
    any particular State.

      SECTION. 4. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this
    Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them
    against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the
    Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic
    Violence.

                                ARTICLE. V.

      The Congress, whenever two thirds of both Houses shall deem it
    necessary, shall propose Amendments to this Constitution, or, on the
    Application of the Legislatures of two thirds of the several States,
    shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, which, in either Case,
    shall be valid to all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this
    Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the
    several States, or by Conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one
    or the other Mode of Ratification may be proposed by the Congress;
    Provided that no Amendment which may be made prior to the Year One
    thousand eight hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first
    and fourth Clauses in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that
    no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal Suffrage
    in the Senate.

                                ARTICLE. VI.

      (1)All Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the
    Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as valid against the United
    States under this Constitution, as under the Confederation.
     (2)This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be
    made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be
    made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law
    of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any
    Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary
    notwithstanding.
      (3)The Senators and Representatives before mentioned, and the Members of
    the several State Legislatures, and all executive and judicial Officers,
    both of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound by
    Oath or Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test
    shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust
    under the United States.

                               ARTICLE. VII.

      The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient
    for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so
    ratifying the Same.

    DONE in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the
      Seventeenth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven
      hundred and Eighty seven and of the Independence of the United States of
      America the Twelfth In witness whereof We have hereunto
      subscribed our Names,


    Go. WASHINGTON - Presid'. 
         and deputy from Virginia


    [Signed also by the deputies of twelve States.]

    New Hampshire
      John Langdon
      Nicholas Gilman
    Massachusetts
      Nathaniel Gorham
      Rufus King
    Connecticut
      WM. SamL. Johnson
      Roger Sherman
    New York
      Alexander Hamilton
    New Jersey
      Wil: Livingston
      David Brearley.
      WM. Paterson.
      Jona: Dayton
    Pennsylvania
      B Franklin
      Thomas Mifflin
      RobT Morris
      Geo. Clymer
      ThoS. FitzSimons
      Jared Ingersoll
      James Wilson.
      Gouv Morris
    Delaware
      Geo: Read
      Gunning Bedford jun
      John Dickinson
      Richard Bassett
      Jaco: Broom
    Maryland
      James McHenry
      Dan of St Thos. Jenifer
      DanL Carroll.
    Virginia
      John Blair -
      James Madison Jr.
    North Carolina
      WM Blount
      RichD. Dobbs Spaight.
      Hu Williamson
    South Carolina
      J. Rutledge
      Charles Cotesworth Pinckney
      Charles Pinckney
      Pierce Butler.
    Georgia
      William Few
      Abr Baldwin

    Attest William Jackson Secretary


-FOOTNOTE-
      (!1)This text of the Constitution follows the engrossed copy signed by
    Gen. Washington and the deputies from 12 States. The small superior
    figures preceding the paragraphs designate clauses, and were not in the
    original and have no reference to footnotes.
      In May 1785, a committee of Congress made a report recommending an
    alteration in the Articles of Confederation, but no action was taken on
    it, and it was left to the State Legislatures to proceed in the matter.
    In January 1786, the Legislature of Virginia passed a resolution
    providing for the appointment of five commissioners, who, or any three
    of them, should meet such commissioners as might be appointed in the
    other States of the Union, at a time and place to be agreed upon, to
    take into consideration the trade of the United States; to consider how
    far a uniform system in their commercial regulations may be necessary to
    their common interest and their permanent harmony; and to report to the
    several States such an act, relative to this great object, as, when
    ratified by them, will enable the United States in Congress effectually
    to provide for the same. The Virginia commissioners, after some
    correspondence, fixed the first Monday in September as the time, and the
    city of Annapolis as the place for the meeting, but only four other
    States were represented, viz: Delaware, New York, New Jersey, and
    Pennsylvania; the commissioners appointed by Massachusetts, New
    Hampshire, North Carolina, and Rhode Island failed to attend. Under the
    circumstances of so partial a representation, the commissioners present
    agreed upon a report, (drawn by Mr. Hamilton, of New York,) expressing
    their unanimous conviction that it might essentially tend to advance the
    interests of the Union if the States by which they were respectively
    delegated would concur, and use their endeavors to procure the
    concurrence of the other States, in the appointment of commissioners to
    meet at Philadelphia on the Second Monday of May following, to take into
    consideration the situation of the United States; to devise such further
    provisions as should appear to them necessary to render the Constitution
    of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union; and
    to report such an act for that purpose to the United States in Congress
    assembled as, when agreed to by them and afterwards confirmed by the
    Legislatures of every State, would effectually provide for the same.
      Congress, on the 21st of February, 1787, adopted a resolution in favor
    of a convention, and the Legislatures of those States which had not
    already done so (with the exception of Rhode Island) promptly appointed
    delegates. On the 25th of May, seven States having convened, George
    Washington, of Virginia, was unanimously elected President, and the
    consideration of the proposed constitution was commenced. On the 17th of
    September, 1787, the Constitution as engrossed and agreed upon was
    signed by all the members present, except Mr. Gerry of Massachusetts,
    and Messrs. Mason and Randolph, of Virginia. The president of the
    convention transmitted it to Congress, with a resolution stating how the
    proposed Federal Government should be put in operation, and an
    explanatory letter. Congress, on the 28th of September, 1787, directed
    the Constitution so framed, with the resolutions and letter concerning
    the same, to ``be transmitted to the several Legislatures in order to be
    submitted to a convention of delegates chosen in each State by the
    people thereof, in conformity to the resolves of the convention.''
      On the 4th of March, 1789, the day which had been fixed for commencing
    the operations of Government under the new Constitution, it had been
    ratified by the conventions chosen in each State to consider it, as
    follows: Delaware, December 7, 1787; Pennsylvania, December 12, 1787;
    New Jersey, December 18, 1787; Georgia, January 2, 1788; Connecticut,
    January 9, 1788; Massachusetts, February 6, 1788; Maryland, April 28,
    1788; South Carolina, May 23, 1788; New Hampshire, June 21, 1788;
    Virginia, June 25, 1788; and New York, July 26, 1788.
      The President informed Congress, on the 28th of January, 1790, that
    North Carolina had ratified the Constitution November 21, 1789; and he
    informed Congress on the 1st of June, 1790, that Rhode Island had
    ratified the Constitution May 29, 1790. Vermont, in convention, ratified
    the Constitution January 10, 1791, and was, by an act of Congress
    approved February 18, 1791, ``received and admitted into this Union as a
    new and entire member of the United States.''


      (!2)The part of this clause relating to the mode of apportionment of
    representatives among the several States has been affected by section 2
    of amendment XIV, and as to taxes on incomes without apportionment by
    amendment XVI.

      (!3)This clause has been affected by clause 1 of amendment XVII.
  
      (!4)This clause has been affected by clause 2 of amendment XVIII.

      (!5)This clause has been affected by amendment XX.

      (!6)This clause has been affected by amendment XXVII.

      (!7)This clause has been affected by amendment XVI.

      (!8)This clause has been superseded by amendment XII.

      (!9)This clause has been affected by amendment XXV.

      (!10)This clause has been affected by amendment XI.

      (!11)This clause has been affected by amendment XIII.

-MISC2-


    ARTICLES IN ADDITION TO, AND AMENDMENT OF, THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
      UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, PROPOSED BY CONGRESS, AND RATIFIED BY
      THE LEGISLATURES OF THE SEVERAL STATES, PURSUANT TO THE FIFTH
                 ARTICLE OF THE ORIGINAL CONSTITUTION(!12) 


                             ARTICLE [I.](!13)
      Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or
    prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of
    speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to
    assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.

                               ARTICLE [II.]
      A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free
    State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be
    infringed.

                               ARTICLE [III.]
      No Soldier shall, in time of peace be quartered in any house, without
    the consent of the Owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner to be
    prescribed by law.

                               ARTICLE [IV.]
      The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers,
    and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be
    violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause,
    supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place
    to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized.

                                ARTICLE [V.]
      No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous
    crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in
    cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in
    actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be
    subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or
    limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness
    against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without
    due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use,
    without just compensation.

                               ARTICLE [VI.]
      In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a
    speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district
    wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall have
    been previously ascertained by law, and to be informed of the nature and
    cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against
    him; to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor,
    and to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defence.

                               ARTICLE [VII.]
      In Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed
    twenty dollars, the right of trial by jury shall be preserved, and no
    fact tried by a jury, shall be otherwise re-examined in any Court of the
    United States, than according to the rules of the common law.

                              ARTICLE [VIII.]
      Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor
    cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.

                               ARTICLE [IX.]
      The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be
    construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.

                                ARTICLE [X.]
      The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
    prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively,
    or to the people.

                               [ARTICLE XI.]
      The Judicial power of the United States shall not be construed to extend
    to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of the
    United States by Citizens of another State, or by Citizens or Subjects
    of any Foreign State.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
  The eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States was proposed
to the legislatures of the several States by the Third Congress, on the 4th
of March 1794; and was declared in a message from the President to Congress,
dated the 8th of January, 1798, to have been ratified by the legislatures of
three-fourths of the States. The dates of ratification were: New York, March
27, 1794; Rhode Island, March 31, 1794; Connecticut, May 8, 1794; New
Hampshire, June 16, 1794; Massachusetts, June 26, 1794; Vermont, between
October 9, 1794 and November 9, 1794; Virginia, November 18, 1794; Georgia,
November 29, 1794; Kentucky, December 7, 1794; Maryland, December 26, 1794;
Delaware, January 23, 1795; North Carolina, February 7, 1795.
  Ratification was completed on February 7, 1795.

  The amendment was subsequently ratified by South Carolina on December 4,
1797. New Jersey and Pennsylvania did not take action on the amendment.

                               [ARTICLE XII.]
      The Electors shall meet in their respective states, and vote by ballot
    for President and Vice-President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an
    inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their
    ballots the person voted for as President, and in distinct ballots the
    person voted for as Vice-President, and they shall make distinct lists
    of all persons voted for as President, and of all persons voted for as
    Vice-President, and of the number of votes for each, which lists they
    shall sign and certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of the
    government of the United States, directed to the President of the
    Senate;_The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate
    and House of Representatives, open all the certificates and the votes
    shall then be counted;_The person having the greatest number of votes
    for President, shall be the President, if such number be a majority of
    the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no person have such
    majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers not exceeding
    three on the list of those voted for as President, the House of
    Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President. But
    in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by states, the
    representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this
    purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the
    states, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice.
    And if the House of Representatives shall not choose a President
    whenever the right of choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourth
    day of March next following, then the Vice-President shall act as
    President, as in the case of the death or other constitutional
    disability of the President.(!14) The person having the greatest number
    of votes as Vice-President, shall be the Vice-President, if such number
    be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed, and if no
    person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the list,
    the Senate shall choose the Vice-President; a quorum for the purpose
    shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and a
    majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice. But no
    person constitutionally ineligible to the office of President shall be
    eligible to that of Vice-President of the United States.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The twelfth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Eighth
    Congress, on the 9th of December, 1803, in lieu of the original third
    paragraph of the first section of the second article; and was declared
    in a proclamation of the Secretary of State, dated the 25th of
    September, 1804, to have been ratified by the legislatures of 13 of the
    17 States. The dates of ratification were: North Carolina, December 21,
    1803; Maryland, December 24, 1803; Kentucky, December 27, 1803; Ohio,
    December 30, 1803; Pennsylvania, January 5, 1804; Vermont, January 30,
    1804; Virginia, February 3, 1804; New York, February 10, 1804; New
    Jersey, February 22, 1804; Rhode Island, March 12, 1804; South Carolina,
    May 15, 1804; Georgia, May 19, 1804; New Hampshire, June 15, 1804.
      Ratification was completed on June 15, 1804.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Tennessee, July 27, 1804.
      The amendment was rejected by Delaware, January 18, 1804; Massachusetts,
    February 3, 1804; Connecticut, at its session begun May 10, 1804.

                               ARTICLE XIII.
      Section 1. Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a
    punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly convicted,
    shall exist within the United States, or any place subject to their
    jurisdiction.
      Section 2. Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
    appropriate legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The thirteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Thirty-eighth
    Congress, on the 31st day of January, 1865, and was declared, in a
    proclamation of the Secretary of State, dated the 18th of December,
    1865, to have been ratified by the legislatures of twenty-seven of the
    thirty-six States. The dates of ratification were: Illinois, February 1,
    1865; Rhode Island, February 2, 1865; Michigan, February 2, 1865;
    Maryland, February 3, 1865; New York, February 3, 1865; Pennsylvania,
    February 3, 1865; West Virginia, February 3, 1865; Missouri, February 6,
    1865; Maine, February 7, 1865; Kansas, February 7, 1865; Massachusetts,
    February 7, 1865; Virginia, February 9, 1865; Ohio, February 10, 1865;
    Indiana, February 13, 1865; Nevada, February 16, 1865; Louisiana,
    February 17, 1865; Minnesota, February 23, 1865; Wisconsin, February 24,
    1865; Vermont, March 9, 1865; Tennessee, April 7, 1865; Arkansas, April
    14, 1865; Connecticut, May 4, 1865; New Hampshire, July 1, 1865; South
    Carolina, November 13, 1865; Alabama, December 2, 1865; North Carolina,
    December 4, 1865; Georgia, December 6, 1865.
      Ratification was completed on December 6, 1865.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Oregon, December 8, 1865;
    California, December 19, 1865; Florida, December 28, 1865 (Florida again
    ratified on June 9, 1868, upon its adoption of a new constitution);
    Iowa, January 15, 1866; New Jersey, January 23, 1866 (after having
    rejected the amendment on March 16, 1865); Texas, February 18, 1870;
    Delaware, February 12, 1901 (after having rejected the amendment on
    February 8, 1865); Kentucky, March 18, 1976 (after having rejected it on
    February 24, 1865).
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by
    Mississippi, December 4, 1865.

                                ARTICLE XIV.
      Section 1. All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and
    subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States
    and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any
    law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
    United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty,
    or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within
    its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
      Section 2. Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States
    according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of
    persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right
    to vote at any election for the choice of electors for President and
    Vice President of the United States, Representatives in Congress, the
    Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of the
    Legislature thereof, is denied to any of the male inhabitants of such
    State, being twenty-one years of age,(!15) and citizens of the United
    States, or in any way abridged, except for participation in rebellion,
    or other crime, the basis of representation therein shall be reduced in
    the proportion which the number of such male citizens shall bear to the
    whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.
      Section 3. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress,
    or elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or
    military, under the United States, or under any State, who, having
    previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as an officer of
    the United States, or as a member of any State legislature, or as an
    executive or judicial officer of any State, to support the Constitution
    of the United States, shall have engaged in insurrection or rebellion
    against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But
    Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disability.
      Section 4. The validity of the public debt of the United States,
    authorized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and
    bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall
    not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall
    assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or
    rebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or
    emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims
    shall be held illegal and void.
      Section 5. The Congress shall have power to enforce, by appropriate
    legislation, the provisions of this article.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The fourteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Thirty-ninth
    Congress, on the 13th of June, 1866. It was declared, in a certificate
    of the Secretary of State dated July 28, 1868 to have been ratified by
    the legislatures of 28 of the 37 States. The dates of ratification were:
    Connecticut, June 25, 1866; New Hampshire, July 6, 1866; Tennessee, July
    19, 1866; New Jersey, September 11, 1866 (subsequently the legislature
    rescinded its ratification, and on March 24, 1868, readopted its
    resolution of rescission over the Governor's veto, and on Nov. 12, 1980,
    expressed support for the amendment); Oregon, September 19, 1866 (and
    rescinded its ratification on October 16, 1868, but reratified the
    amendment on April 25, 1973); Vermont, October 30, 1866; Ohio, January
    11, 1867 (and rescinded its ratification on January 15, 1868, but
    reratified the amendment on March 12, 2003); New York, January 10, 1867;
    Kansas, January 11, 1867; Illinois, January 15, 1867; West Virginia,
    January 16, 1867; Michigan, January 16, 1867; Minnesota, January 16,
    1867; Maine, January 19, 1867; Nevada, January 22, 1867; Indiana,
    January 23, 1867; Missouri, January 25, 1867; Rhode Island, February 7,
    1867; Wisconsin, February 7, 1867; Pennsylvania, February 12, 1867;
    Massachusetts, March 20, 1867; Nebraska, June 15, 1867; Iowa, March 16,
    1868; Arkansas, April 6, 1868; Florida, June 9, 1868; North Carolina,
    July 4, 1868 (after having rejected it on December 14, 1866); Louisiana,
    July 9, 1868 (after having rejected it on February 6, 1867); South
    Carolina, July 9, 1868 (after having rejected it on December 20, 1866).
      Ratification was completed on July 9, 1868.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Alabama, July 13, 1868;
    Georgia, July 21, 1868 (after having rejected it on November 9, 1866);
    Virginia, October 8, 1869 (after having rejected it on January 9, 1867);
    Mississippi, January 17, 1870; Texas, February 18, 1870 (after having
    rejected it on October 27, 1866); Delaware, February 12, 1901 (after
    having rejected it on February 8, 1867); Maryland, April 4, 1959 (after
    having rejected it on March 23, 1867); California, May 6, 1959;
    Kentucky, March 18, 1976 (after having rejected it on January 8, 1867).

                                ARTICLE XV.
      Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not
    be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of
    race, color, or previous condition of servitude.
      Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
    appropriate legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The fifteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Fortieth
    Congress, on the 26th of February, 1869, and was declared, in a
    proclamation of the Secretary of State, dated March 30, 1870, to have
    been ratified by the legislatures of twenty-nine of the thirty-seven
    States. The dates of ratification were: Nevada, March 1, 1869; West
    Virginia, March 3, 1869; Illinois, March 5, 1869; Louisiana, March 5,
    1869; North Carolina, March 5, 1869; Michigan, March 8, 1869; Wisconsin,
    March 9, 1869; Maine, March 11, 1869; Massachusetts, March 12, 1869;
    Arkansas, March 15, 1869; South Carolina, March 15, 1869; Pennsylvania,
    March 25, 1869; New York, April 14, 1869 (and the legislature of the
    same State passed a resolution January 5, 1870, to withdraw its consent
    to it, which action it rescinded on March 30, 1970); Indiana, May 14,
    1869; Connecticut, May 19, 1869; Florida, June 14, 1869; New Hampshire,
    July 1, 1869; Virginia, October 8, 1869; Vermont, October 20, 1869;
    Missouri, January 7, 1870; Minnesota, January 13, 1870; Mississippi,
    January 17, 1870; Rhode Island, January 18, 1870; Kansas, January 19,
    1870; Ohio, January 27, 1870 (after having rejected it on April 30,
    1869); Georgia, February 2, 1870; Iowa, February 3, 1870; Tennessee,
    April 2, 1997 (after having rejected it on November 16, 1869).
      Ratification was completed on February 3, 1870, unless the withdrawal of
    ratification by New York was effective; in which event ratification was
    completed on February 17, 1870, when Nebraska ratified.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Texas, February 18, 1870; New
    Jersey, February 15, 1871 (after having rejected it on February 7,
    1870); Delaware, February 12, 1901 (after having rejected it on March
    18, 1869); Oregon, February 24, 1959; California, April 3, 1962 (after
    having rejected it on January 28, 1870); Kentucky, March 18, 1976 (after
    having rejected it on March 12, 1869).
      The amendment was approved by the Governor of Maryland, May 7, 1973;
    Maryland having previously rejected it on February 26, 1870.

                                ARTICLE XVI.
      The Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from
    whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States,
    and without regard to any census or enumeration.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The sixteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Sixty-first
    Congress on the 12th of July, 1909, and was declared, in a proclamation
    of the Secretary of State, dated the 25th of February, 1913, to have
    been ratified by 36 of the 48 States. The dates of ratification were:
    Alabama, August 10, 1909; Kentucky, February 8, 1910; South Carolina,
    February 19, 1910; Illinois, March 1, 1910; Mississippi, March 7, 1910;
    Oklahoma, March 10, 1910; Maryland, April 8, 1910; Georgia, August 3,
    1910; Texas, August 16, 1910; Ohio, January 19, 1911; Idaho, January 20,
    1911; Oregon, January 23, 1911; Washington, January 26, 1911; Montana,
    January 30, 1911; Indiana, January 30, 1911; California, January 31,
    1911; Nevada, January 31, 1911; South Dakota, February 3, 1911;
    Nebraska, February 9, 1911; North Carolina, February 11, 1911; Colorado,
    February 15, 1911; North Dakota, February 17, 1911; Kansas, February 18,
    1911; Michigan, February 23, 1911; Iowa, February 24, 1911; Missouri,
    March 16, 1911; Maine, March 31, 1911; Tennessee, April 7, 1911;
    Arkansas, April 22, 1911 (after having rejected it earlier); Wisconsin,
    May 26, 1911; New York, July 12, 1911; Arizona, April 6, 1912;
    Minnesota, June 11, 1912; Louisiana, June 28, 1912; West Virginia,
    January 31, 1913; New Mexico, February 3, 1913.
      Ratification was completed on February 3, 1913.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Massachusetts, March 4, 1913;
    New Hampshire, March 7, 1913 (after having rejected it on March 2,
    1911).
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by
    Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Utah.

                              [ARTICLE XVII.]
      The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from
    each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each
    Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the
    qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the
    State legislatures.
      When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate,
    the executive authority of such State shall issue writs of election to
    fill such vacancies: Provided, That the legislature of any State may
    empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the
    people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.
       This amendment shall not be so construed as to affect the election or
    term of any Senator chosen before it becomes valid as part of the
    Constitution.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The seventeenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Sixty-second
    Congress on the 13th of May, 1912, and was declared, in a proclamation
    of the Secretary of State, dated the 31st of May, 1913, to have been
    ratified by the legislatures of 36 of the 48 States. The dates of
    ratification were: Massachusetts, May 22, 1912; Arizona, June 3, 1912;
    Minnesota, June 10, 1912; New York, January 15, 1913; Kansas, January
    17, 1913; Oregon, January 23, 1913; North Carolina, January 25, 1913;
    California, January 28, 1913; Michigan, January 28, 1913; Iowa, January
    30, 1913; Montana, January 30, 1913; Idaho, January 31, 1913; West
    Virginia, February 4, 1913; Colorado, February 5, 1913; Nevada, February
    6, 1913; Texas, February 7, 1913; Washington, February 7, 1913; Wyoming,
    February 8, 1913; Arkansas, February 11, 1913; Maine, February 11, 1913;
    Illinois, February 13, 1913; North Dakota, February 14, 1913; Wisconsin,
    February 18, 1913; Indiana, February 19, 1913; New Hampshire, February
    19, 1913; Vermont, February 19, 1913; South Dakota, February 19, 1913;
    Oklahoma, February 24, 1913; Ohio, February 25, 1913; Missouri, March 7,
    1913; New Mexico, March 13, 1913; Nebraska, March 14, 1913; New Jersey,
    March 17, 1913; Tennessee, April 1, 1913; Pennsylvania, April 2, 1913;
    Connecticut, April 8, 1913.
      Ratification was completed on April 8, 1913.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Louisiana, June 11, 1914.
      The amendment was rejected by Utah (and not subsequently ratified) on
    February 26, 1913.

                           ARTICLE [XVIII].(!16)
      Section 1. After one year from the ratification of this article the
    manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors within, the
    importation thereof into, or the exportation thereof from the United
    States and all territory subject to the jurisdiction thereof for
    beverage purposes is hereby prohibited.
      Sec. 2. The Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power
    to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
      Sec. 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
    ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the
    several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from
    the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The eighteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Sixty-fifth
    Congress, on the 18th of December, 1917, and was declared, in a
    proclamation of the Secretary of State, dated the 29th of January, 1919,
    to have been ratified by the legislatures of 36 of the 48 States. The
    dates of ratification were: Mississippi, January 8, 1918; Virginia,
    January 11, 1918; Kentucky, January 14, 1918; North Dakota, January 25,
    1918; South Carolina, January 29, 1918; Maryland, February 13, 1918;
    Montana, February 19, 1918; Texas, March 4, 1918; Delaware, March 18,
    1918; South Dakota, March 20, 1918; Massachusetts, April 2, 1918;
    Arizona, May 24, 1918; Georgia, June 26, 1918; Louisiana, August 3,
    1918; Florida, December 3, 1918; Michigan, January 2, 1919; Ohio,
    January 7, 1919; Oklahoma, January 7, 1919; Idaho, January 8, 1919;
    Maine, January 8, 1919; West Virginia, January 9, 1919; California,
    January 13, 1919; Tennessee, January 13, 1919; Washington, January 13,
    1919; Arkansas, January 14, 1919; Kansas, January 14, 1919; Alabama,
    January 15, 1919; Colorado, January 15, 1919; Iowa, January 15, 1919;
    New Hampshire, January 15, 1919; Oregon, January 15, 1919; Nebraska,
    January 16, 1919; North Carolina, January 16, 1919; Utah, January 16,
    1919; Missouri, January 16, 1919; Wyoming, January 16, 1919.
      Ratification was completed on January 16, 1919. See Dillon v. Gloss, 256
    U.S. 368, 376 (1921).
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Minnesota on January 17,
    1919; Wisconsin, January 17, 1919; New Mexico, January 20, 1919; Nevada,
    January 21, 1919; New York, January 29, 1919; Vermont, January 29, 1919;
    Pennsylvania, February 25, 1919; and New Jersey, March 9, 1922.
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by
    Connecticut and Rhode Island.

                               ARTICLE [XIX].
      The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied
    or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.
      Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate
    legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The nineteenth amendment to the Constitution of the United States was
    proposed to the legislatures of the several States by the Sixty-sixth
    Congress, on the 4th of June, 1919, and was declared, in a proclamation
    of the Secretary of State, dated the 26th of August, 1920, to have been
    ratified by the legislatures of 36 of the 48 States. The dates of
    ratification were: Illinois, June 10, 1919 (and that State readopted its
    resolution of ratification June 17, 1919); Michigan, June 10, 1919;
    Wisconsin, June 10, 1919; Kansas, June 16, 1919; New York, June 16,
    1919; Ohio, June 16, 1919; Pennsylvania, June 24, 1919; Massachusetts,
    June 25, 1919; Texas, June 28, 1919; Iowa, July 2, 1919; Missouri, July
    3, 1919; Arkansas, July 28, 1919; Montana, August 2, 1919; Nebraska,
    August 2, 1919; Minnesota, September 8, 1919; New Hampshire, September
    10, 1919; Utah, October 2, 1919; California, November 1, 1919; Maine,
    November 5, 1919; North Dakota, December 1, 1919; South Dakota, December
    4, 1919; Colorado, December 15, 1919; Kentucky, January 6, 1920; Rhode
    Island, January 6, 1920; Oregon, January 13, 1920; Indiana, January 16,
    1920; Wyoming, January 27, 1920; Nevada, February 7, 1920; New Jersey,
    February 9, 1920; Idaho, February 11, 1920; Arizona, February 12, 1920;
    New Mexico, February 21, 1920; Oklahoma, February 28, 1920; West
    Virginia, March 10, 1920; Washington, March 22, 1920; Tennessee, August
    18, 1920.
      Ratification was completed on August 18, 1920.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Connecticut on September 14,
    1920 (and that State reaffirmed on September 21, 1920); Vermont,
    February 8, 1921; Delaware, March 6, 1923 (after having rejected it on
    June 2, 1920); Maryland, March 29, 1941 (after having rejected it on
    February 24, 1920, ratification certified on February 25, 1958);
    Virginia, February 21, 1952 (after having rejected it on February 12,
    1920); Alabama, September 8, 1953 (after having rejected it on September
    22, 1919); Florida, May 13, 1969; South Carolina, July 1, 1969 (after
    having rejected it on January 28, 1920, ratification certified on August
    22, 1973); Georgia, February 20, 1970 (after having rejected it on July
    24, 1919); Louisiana, June 11, 1970 (after having rejected it on July 1,
    1920); North Carolina, May 6, 1971; Mississippi, March 22, 1984 (after
    having rejected it on March 29, 1920).

                               ARTICLE [XX.]
      Section 1. The terms of the President and Vice President shall end at
    noon on the 20th day of January, and the terms of Senators and
    Representatives at noon on the 3d day of January, of the years in which
    such terms would have ended if this article had not been ratified; and
    the terms of their successors shall then begin.
      Sec. 2. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every year, and
    such meeting shall begin at noon on the 3d day of January, unless they
    shall by law appoint a different day.
      Sec. 3. If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the
    President, the President elect shall have died, the Vice President elect
    shall become President. If a President shall not have been chosen before
    the time fixed for the beginning of his term, or if the President elect
    shall have failed to qualify, then the Vice President elect shall act as
    President until a President shall have qualified; and the Congress may
    by law provide for the case wherein neither a President elect nor a Vice
    President elect shall have qualified, declaring who shall then act as
    President, or the manner in which one who is to act shall be selected,
    and such person shall act accordingly until a President or Vice
    President shall have qualified.
      Sec. 4. The Congress may by law provide for the case of the death of any
    of the persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a
    President whenever the right of choice shall have devolved upon them,
    and for the case of the death of any of the persons from whom the Senate
    may choose a Vice President whenever the right of choice shall have
    devolved upon them.
      Sec. 5. Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect on the 15th day of October
    following the ratification of this article.
      Sec. 6. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
    ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of
    three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of
    its submission.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The twentieth amendment to the Constitution was proposed to the
    legislatures of the several states by the Seventy-Second Congress, on
    the 2d day of March, 1932, and was declared, in a proclamation by the
    Secretary of State, dated on the 6th day of February, 1933, to have been
    ratified by the legislatures of 36 of the 48 States. The dates of
    ratification were: Virginia, March 4, 1932; New York, March 11, 1932;
    Mississippi, March 16, 1932; Arkansas, March 17, 1932; Kentucky, March
    17, 1932; New Jersey, March 21, 1932; South Carolina, March 25, 1932;
    Michigan, March 31, 1932; Maine, April 1, 1932; Rhode Island, April 14,
    1932; Illinois, April 21, 1932; Louisiana, June 22, 1932; West Virginia,
    July 30, 1932; Pennsylvania, August 11, 1932; Indiana, August 15, 1932;
    Texas, September 7, 1932; Alabama, September 13, 1932; California,
    January 4, 1933; North Carolina, January 5, 1933; North Dakota, January
    9, 1933; Minnesota, January 12, 1933; Arizona, January 13, 1933;
    Montana, January 13, 1933; Nebraska, January 13, 1933; Oklahoma, January
    13, 1933; Kansas, January 16, 1933; Oregon, January 16, 1933; Delaware,
    January 19, 1933; Washington, January 19, 1933; Wyoming, January 19,
    1933; Iowa, January 20, 1933; South Dakota, January 20, 1933; Tennessee,
    January 20, 1933; Idaho, January 21, 1933; New Mexico, January 21, 1933;
    Georgia, January 23, 1933; Missouri, January 23, 1933; Ohio, January 23,
    1933; Utah, January 23, 1933.
      Ratification was completed on January 23, 1933.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Massachusetts on January 24,
    1933; Wisconsin, January 24, 1933; Colorado, January 24, 1933; Nevada,
    January 26, 1933; Connecticut, January 27, 1933; New Hampshire, January
    31, 1933; Vermont, February 2, 1933; Maryland, March 24, 1933; Florida,
    April 26, 1933.

                               ARTICLE [XXI.]
      Section 1. The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of
    the United States is hereby repealed.
      Section 2. The transportation or importation into any State, Territory,
    or possession of the United States for delivery or use therein of
    intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby
    prohibited.
      Section 3. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
    ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the
    several States, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from
    the date of the submission hereof to the States by the Congress.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      The twenty-first amendment to the Constitution was proposed to the
    several states by the Seventy-Second Congress, on the 20th day of
    February, 1933, and was declared, in a proclamation by the Secretary of
    State, dated on the 5th day of December, 1933, to have been ratified by
    36 of the 48 States. The dates of ratification were: Michigan, April 10,
    1933; Wisconsin, April 25, 1933; Rhode Island, May 8, 1933; Wyoming, May
    25, 1933; New Jersey, June 1, 1933; Delaware, June 24, 1933; Indiana,
    June 26, 1933; Massachusetts, June 26, 1933; New York, June 27, 1933;
    Illinois, July 10, 1933; Iowa, July 10, 1933; Connecticut, July 11,
    1933; New Hampshire, July 11, 1933; California, July 24, 1933; West
    Virginia, July 25, 1933; Arkansas, August 1, 1933; Oregon, August 7,
    1933; Alabama, August 8, 1933; Tennessee, August 11, 1933; Missouri,
    August 29, 1933; Arizona, September 5, 1933; Nevada, September 5, 1933;
    Vermont, September 23, 1933; Colorado, September 26, 1933; Washington,
    October 3, 1933; Minnesota, October 10, 1933; Idaho, October 17, 1933;
    Maryland, October 18, 1933; Virginia, October 25, 1933; New Mexico,
    November 2, 1933; Florida, November 14, 1933; Texas, November 24, 1933;
    Kentucky, November 27, 1933; Ohio, December 5, 1933; Pennsylvania,
    December 5, 1933; Utah, December 5, 1933.
      Ratification was completed on December 5, 1933.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Maine, on December 6, 1933,
    and by Montana, on August 6, 1934.
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by South
    Carolina, on December 4, 1933.

                              ARTICLE [XXII.]
      Section 1. No person shall be elected to the office of the President
    more than twice, and no person who has held the office of President, or
    acted as President, for more than two years of a term to which some
    other person was elected President shall be elected to the office of the
    President more than once. But this Article shall not apply to any person
    holding the office of President when this Article was proposed by the
    Congress, and shall not prevent any person who may be holding the office
    of President, or acting as President, during the term within which this
    Article becomes operative from holding the office of President or acting
    as President during the remainder of such term.
      Sec. 2. This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been
    ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of
    three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of
    its submission to the States by the Congress.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment was proposed to the legislatures of the several States by
    the Eightieth Congress on Mar. 21, 1947 by House Joint Res. No. 27, and
    was declared by the Administrator of General Services, on Mar. 1, 1951,
    to have been ratified by the legislatures of 36 of the 48 States. The
    dates of ratification were: Maine, March 31, 1947; Michigan, March 31,
    1947; Iowa, April 1, 1947; Kansas, April 1, 1947; New Hampshire, April
    1, 1947; Delaware, April 2, 1947; Illinois, April 3, 1947; Oregon, April
    3, 1947; Colorado, April 12, 1947; California, April 15, 1947; New
    Jersey, April 15, 1947; Vermont, April 15, 1947; Ohio, April 16, 1947;
    Wisconsin, April 16, 1947; Pennsylvania, April 29, 1947; Connecticut,
    May 21, 1947; Missouri, May 22, 1947; Nebraska, May 23, 1947; Virginia,
    January 28, 1948; Mississippi, February 12, 1948; New York, March 9,
    1948; South Dakota, January 21, 1949; North Dakota, February 25, 1949;
    Louisiana, May 17, 1950; Montana, January 25, 1951; Indiana, January 29,
    1951; Idaho, January 30, 1951; New Mexico, February 12, 1951; Wyoming,
    February 12, 1951; Arkansas, February 15, 1951; Georgia, February 17,
    1951; Tennessee, February 20, 1951; Texas, February 22, 1951; Nevada,
    February 26, 1951; Utah, February 26, 1951; Minnesota, February 27,
    1951.
      Ratification was completed on February 27, 1951.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by North Carolina on February
    28, 1951; South Carolina, March 13, 1951; Maryland, March 14, 1951;
    Florida, April 16, 1951; Alabama, May 4, 1951.
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by Oklahoma
    in June 1947, and Massachusetts on June 9, 1949.

                         CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
      Publication of the certifying statement of the Administrator of General
    Services that the amendment had become valid was made on Mar. 1, 1951,
    F.R. Doc. 51-2940, 16 F.R. 2019.

                              ARTICLE [XXIII.]
      Section 1. The District constituting the seat of Government of the
    United States shall appoint in such manner as the Congress may direct:
      A number of electors of President and Vice President equal to the whole
    number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the District
    would be entitled if it were a State, but in no event more than the
    least populous State; they shall be in addition to those appointed by
    the States, but they shall be considered, for the purposes of the
    election of President and Vice President, to be electors appointed by a
    State; and they shall meet in the District and perform such duties as
    provided by the twelfth article of amendment.
      Sec. 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
    appropriate legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment was proposed by the Eighty-sixth Congress on June 17,
    1960 and was declared by the Administrator of General Services on Apr.
    3, 1961, to have been ratified by 38 of the 50 States. The dates of
    ratification were: Hawaii, June 23, 1960 (and that State made a
    technical correction to its resolution on June 30, 1960); Massachusetts,
    August 22, 1960; New Jersey, December 19, 1960; New York, January 17,
    1961; California, January 19, 1961; Oregon, January 27, 1961; Maryland,
    January 30, 1961; Idaho, January 31, 1961; Maine, January 31, 1961;
    Minnesota, January 31, 1961; New Mexico, February 1, 1961; Nevada,
    February 2, 1961; Montana, February 6, 1961; South Dakota, February 6,
    1961; Colorado, February 8, 1961; Washington, February 9, 1961; West
    Virginia, February 9, 1961; Alaska, February 10, 1961; Wyoming, February
    13, 1961; Delaware, February 20, 1961; Utah, February 21, 1961;
    Wisconsin, February 21, 1961; Pennsylvania, February 28, 1961; Indiana,
    March 3, 1961; North Dakota, March 3, 1961; Tennessee, March 6, 1961;
    Michigan, March 8, 1961; Connecticut, March 9, 1961; Arizona, March 10,
    1961; Illinois, March 14, 1961; Nebraska, March 15, 1961; Vermont, March
    15, 1961; Iowa, March 16, 1961; Missouri, March 20, 1961; Oklahoma,
    March 21, 1961; Rhode Island, March 22, 1961; Kansas, March 29, 1961;
    Ohio, March 29, 1961.
      Ratification was completed on March 29, 1961.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by New Hampshire on March 30,
    1961 (when that State annulled and then repeated its ratification of
    March 29, 1961; Alabama, April 16, 2002).
      The amendment was rejected (and not subsequently ratified) by Arkansas
    on January 24, 1961.

                         CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
       Publication of the certifying statement of the Administrator of General
    Services that the amendment had become valid was made on Apr. 3, 1961,
    F.R. Doc. 61-3017, 26 F.R. 2808.

                              ARTICLE [XXIV.]
      Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States to vote in any
    primary or other election for President or Vice President, for electors
    for President or Vice President, or for Senator or Representative in
    Congress, shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any
    State by reason of failure to pay any poll tax or other tax.
      Sec. 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
    appropriate legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment was proposed by the Eighty-seventh Congress by Senate
    Joint Resolution No. 29, which was approved by the Senate on Mar. 27,
    1962, and by the House of Representatives on Aug. 27, 1962. It was
    declared by the Administrator of General Services on Feb. 4, 1964, to
    have been ratified by the legislatures of 38 of the 50 States.
      This amendment was ratified by the following States:
      Illinois, November 14, 1962; New Jersey, December 3, 1962; Oregon,
    January 25, 1963; Montana, January 28, 1963; West Virginia, February 1,
    1963; New York, February 4, 1963; Maryland, February 6, 1963;
    California, February 7, 1963; Alaska, February 11, 1963; Rhode Island,
    February 14, 1963; Indiana, February 19, 1963; Utah, February 20, 1963;
    Michigan, February 20, 1963; Colorado, February 21, 1963; Ohio, February
    27, 1963; Minnesota, February 27, 1963; New Mexico, March 5, 1963;
    Hawaii, March 6, 1963; North Dakota, March 7, 1963; Idaho, March 8,
    1963; Washington, March 14, 1963; Vermont, March 15, 1963; Nevada, March
    19, 1963; Connecticut, March 20, 1963; Tennessee, March 21, 1963;
    Pennsylvania, March 25, 1963; Wisconsin, March 26, 1963; Kansas, March
    28, 1963; Massachusetts, March 28, 1963; Nebraska, April 4, 1963;
    Florida, April 18, 1963; Iowa, April 24, 1963; Delaware, May 1, 1963;
    Missouri, May 13, 1963; New Hampshire, June 12, 1963; Kentucky, June 27,
    1963; Maine, January 16, 1964; South Dakota, January 23, 1964; Virginia,
    February 25, 1977.
      Ratification was completed on January 23, 1964.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by North Carolina on May 3,
    1989.
      The amendment was rejected by Mississippi (and not subsequently
    ratified) on December 20, 1962.

                         CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
      Publication of the certifying statement of the Administrator of General
    Services that the amendment had become valid was made on Feb. 5, 1964,
    F.R. Doc. 64-1229, 29 F.R. 1715.

                               ARTICLE [XXV.]
      Section 1. In case of the removal of the President from office or of his
    death or resignation, the Vice President shall become President.
      Sec. 2. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President,
    the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon
    confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.
      Sec. 3. Whenever the President transmits to the President pro tempore of
    the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written
    declaration that he is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his
    office, and until he transmits to them a written declaration to the
    contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by the Vice
    President as Acting President.
      Sec. 4. Whenever the Vice President and a majority of either the
    principal officers of the executive departments or of such other body as
    Congress may by law provide, transmit to the President pro tempore of
    the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives their written
    declaration that the President is unable to discharge the powers and
    duties of his office, the Vice President shall immediately assume the
    powers and duties of the office as Acting President.
      Thereafter, when the President transmits to the President pro tempore of
    the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives his written
    declaration that no inability exists, he shall resume the powers and
    duties of his office unless the Vice President and a majority of either
    the principal officers of the executive department1A\17\N or of such
    other body as Congress may by law provide, transmit within four days to
    the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
    Representatives their written declaration that the President is unable
    to discharge the powers and duties of his office. Thereupon Congress
    shall decide the issue, assembling within forty-eight hours for that
    purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within twenty-one days after
    receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if Congress is not in
    session, within twenty-one days after Congress is required to assemble,
    determines by two-thirds vote of both Houses that the President is
    unable to discharge the powers and duties of his office, the Vice
    President shall continue to discharge the same as Acting President;
    otherwise, the President shall resume the powers and duties of his
    office.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment was proposed by the Eighty-ninth Congress by Senate Joint
    Resolution No. 1, which was approved by the Senate on Feb. 19, 1965, and
    by the House of Representatives, in amended form, on Apr. 13, 1965. The
    House of Representatives agreed to a Conference Report on June 30, 1965,
    and the Senate agreed to the Conference Report on July 6, 1965. It was
    declared by the Administrator of General Services, on Feb. 23, 1967, to
    have been ratified by the legislatures of 39 of the 50 States.
      This amendment was ratified by the following States:
      Nebraska, July 12, 1965; Wisconsin, July 13, 1965; Oklahoma, July 16,
    1965; Massachusetts, August 9, 1965; Pennsylvania, August 18, 1965;
    Kentucky, September 15, 1965; Arizona, September 22, 1965; Michigan,
    October 5, 1965; Indiana, October 20, 1965; California, October 21,
    1965; Arkansas, November 4, 1965; New Jersey, November 29, 1965;
    Delaware, December 7, 1965; Utah, January 17, 1966; West Virginia,
    January 20, 1966; Maine, January 24, 1966; Rhode Island, January 28,
    1966; Colorado, February 3, 1966; New Mexico, February 3, 1966; Kansas,
    February 8, 1966; Vermont, February 10, 1966; Alaska, February 18, 1966;
    Idaho, March 2, 1966; Hawaii, March 3, 1966; Virginia, March 8, 1966;
    Mississippi, March 10, 1966; New York, March 14, 1966; Maryland, March
    23, 1966; Missouri, March 30, 1966; New Hampshire, June 13, 1966;
    Louisiana, July 5, 1966; Tennessee, January 12, 1967; Wyoming, January
    25, 1967; Washington, January 26, 1967; Iowa, January 26, 1967; Oregon,
    February 2, 1967; Minnesota, February 10, 1967; Nevada, February 10,
    1967.
      Ratification was completed on February 10, 1967.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Connecticut, February 14,
    1967; Montana, February 15, 1967; South Dakota, March 6, 1967; Ohio,
    March 7, 1967; Alabama, March 14, 1967; North Carolina, March 22, 1967;
    Illinois, March 22, 1967; Texas, April 25, 1967; Florida, May 25, 1967.

                         CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
      Publication of the certifying statement of the Administrator of General
    Services that the amendment had become valid was made on Feb. 25, 1967,
    F.R. Doc. 67-2208, 32 F.R. 3287.

                              ARTICLE [XXVI.]
      Section 1. The right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen
    years of age or older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the
    United States or by any State on account of age.
      Sec. 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by
    appropriate legislation.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment was proposed by the Ninety-second Congress by Senate
    Joint Resolution No. 7, which was approved by the Senate on Mar. 10,
    1971, and by the House of Representatives on Mar. 23, 1971. It was
    declared by the Administrator of General Services on July 5, 1971, to
    have been ratified by the legislatures of 39 of the 50 States.
      This amendment was ratified by the following States: Connecticut, March
    23, 1971; Delaware, March 23, 1971; Minnesota, March 23, 1971;
    Tennessee, March 23, 1971; Washington, March 23, 1971; Hawaii, March 24,
    1971; Massachusetts, March 24, 1971; Montana, March 29, 1971; Arkansas,
    March 30, 1971; Idaho, March 30, 1971; Iowa, March 30, 1971; Nebraska,
    April 2, 1971; New Jersey, April 3, 1971; Kansas, April 7, 1971;
    Michigan, April 7, 1971; Alaska, April 8, 1971; Maryland, April 8, 1971;
    Indiana, April 8, 1971; Maine, April 9, 1971; Vermont, April 16, 1971;
    Louisiana, April 17, 1971; California, April 19, 1971; Colorado, April
    27, 1971; Pennsylvania, April 27, 1971; Texas, April 27, 1971; South
    Carolina, April 28, 1971; West Virginia, April 28, 1971; New Hampshire,
    May 13, 1971; Arizona, May 14, 1971; Rhode Island, May 27, 1971; New
    York, June 2, 1971; Oregon, June 4, 1971; Missouri, June 14, 1971;
    Wisconsin, June 22, 1971; Illinois, June 29, 1971; Alabama, June 30,
    1971; Ohio, June 30, 1971; North Carolina, July 1, 1971; Oklahoma, July
    1, 1971.
      Ratification was completed on July 1, 1971.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Virginia, July 8, 1971;
    Wyoming, July 8, 1971; Georgia, October 4, 1971.

                         CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
      Publication of the certifying statement of the Administrator of General
    Services that the amendment had become valid was made on July 7, 1971,
    F.R. Doc. 71-9691, 36 F.R. 12725.

                              ARTICLE [XXVII.]
      No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
    Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives
    shall have intervened.

                         PROPOSAL AND RATIFICATION
      This amendment, being the second of twelve articles proposed by the
    First Congress on Sept. 25, 1789, was declared by the Archivist of the
    United States on May 18, 1992, to have been ratified by the legislatures
    of 40 of the 50 States.
      This amendment was ratified by the following States: Maryland, December
    19, 1789; North Carolina, December 22, 1789; South Carolina, January 19,
    1790; Delaware, January 28, 1790; Vermont, November 3, 1791; Virginia,
    December 15, 1791; Ohio, May 6, 1873; Wyoming, March 6, 1978; Maine,
    April 27, 1983; Colorado, April 22, 1984; South Dakota, February 21,
    1985; New Hampshire, March 7, 1985; Arizona, April 3, 1985; Tennessee,
    May 23, 1985; Oklahoma, July 10, 1985; New Mexico, February 14, 1986;
    Indiana, February 24, 1986; Utah, February 25, 1986; Arkansas, March 6,
    1987; Montana, March 17, 1987; Connecticut, May 13, 1987; Wisconsin,
    July 15, 1987; Georgia, February 2, 1988; West Virginia, March 10, 1988;
    Louisiana, July 7, 1988; Iowa, February 9, 1989; Idaho, March 23, 1989;
    Nevada, April 26, 1989; Alaska, May 6, 1989; Oregon, May 19, 1989;
    Minnesota, May 22, 1989; Texas, May 25, 1989; Kansas, April 5, 1990;
    Florida, May 31, 1990; North Dakota, March 25, 1991; Alabama, May 5,
    1992; Missouri, May 5, 1992; Michigan, May 7, 1992; New Jersey, May 7,
    1992.
      Ratification was completed on May 7, 1992.
      The amendment was subsequently ratified by Illinois on May 12, 1992;
    California, June 26, 1992; Rhode Island, June 10, 1993; Hawaii, April
    29, 1994; Washington, April 6, 1995; Kentucky, March 21, 1996.

                        CERTIFICATION OF VALIDITY
      Publication of the certifying statement of the Archivist of the United
    States that the amendment had become valid was made on May 18, 1992,
    F.R. Doc. 92-11951, 57 F.R. 21187.



     PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION NOT RATIFIED BY THE STATES

      In addition to the 27 amendments that have been ratified by the required
    three-fourths of the States, six other amendments have been submitted to
    the States but have not been ratified by them.
      Beginning with the proposed Eighteenth Amendment, Congress has
    customarily included a provision requiring ratification within seven
    years from the time of the submission to the States. The Supreme Court
    in Coleman v. Miller, 307 U.S. 433 (1939), declared that the question of
    the reasonableness of the time within which a sufficient number of
    States must act is a political question to be determined by the
    Congress.
      In 1789, twelve proposed articles of amendment were submitted to the
    States. Of these, Articles III-XII were ratified and became the first
    ten amendments to the Constitution, popularly known as the Bill of
    Rights. In 1992, proposed Article II was ratified and became the 27th
    amendment to the Constitution. Proposed Article I which was not ratified
    is as follows:

                            ``ARTICLE THE FIRST
    ``After the first enumeration required by the first article of the
    Constitution, there shall be one Representative for every thirty
    thousand, until the number shall amount to one hundred, after which the
    proportion shall be so regulated by Congress, that there shall be not
    less than one hundred Representatives, nor less than one Representative
    for every forty thousand persons, until the number of Representatives
    shall amount to two hundred; after which the proportion shall be so
    regulated by Congress, that there shall not be less than two hundred
    Representatives, nor more than one Representative for every fifty
    thousand persons.''


      Thereafter, in the 2d session of the Eleventh Congress, the Congress
    proposed the following article of amendment to the Constitution relating
    to acceptance by citizens of the United States of titles of nobility
    from any foreign government.

      The proposed amendment, which was not ratified by three-fourths of the
    States, is as follows:
      Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
    of America, in Congress assembled, Two thirds of both Houses concurring,
    that the following section be submitted to the legislatures of the
    several states, which when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths
    of the states, shall be valid and binding, as a part of the constitution
    of the United States:
      If any citizen of the United States shall accept, claim, receive or
    retain any title of nobility or honor, or shall, without the consent of
    Congress, accept and retain any present, pension, office or emolument of
    any kind whatever, from any emperor, king, prince or foreign power, such
    person shall cease to be a citizen of the United States, and shall be
    incapable of holding any office of trust or profit under them, or either
    of them.

      The following amendment to the Constitution relating to slavery was
    proposed by the 2d session of the Thirty-sixth Congress on March 2,
    1861, when it passed the Senate, having previously passed the House on
    February 28, 1861. It is interesting to note in this connection that
    this is the only proposed (and not ratified) amendment to the
    Constitution to have been signed by the President. The President's
    signature is considered unnecessary because of the constitutional
    provision that on the concurrence of two-thirds of both Houses of
    Congress the proposal shall be submitted to the States for ratification.

      Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
    of America in Congress assembled, That the following article be proposed
    to the Legislatures of the several States as an amendment to the
    Constitution of the United States, which, when ratified by three-fourths
    of said Legislatures, shall be valid, to all intents and purposes, as
    part of the said Constitution, viz:

                             ``ARTICLE THIRTEEN
      ``No amendment shall be made to the Constitution which will authorize or
    give to Congress the power to abolish or interfere, within any State,
    with the domestic institutions thereof, including that of persons held
    to labor or service by the laws of said State.''

      A child labor amendment was proposed by the 1st session of the Sixty-
    eighth Congress on June 2, 1926, when it passed the Senate, having
    previously passed the House on April 26, 1926. The proposed amendment,
    which has been ratified by 28 States, to date, is as follows:

    Joint Resolution Proposing an Amendment to the Constitution of the United
     States
  
      Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
    States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House
    concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an
    amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which, when
    ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States,
    shall be valid to all intents and purposes as a part of the
    Constitution:

                                ``ARTICLE-.
      ``Section 1. The Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and
    prohibit the labor of persons under eighteen years of age.
      ``Section 2. The power of the several States is unimpaired by this
    article except that the operation of State laws shall be suspended to
    the extent necessary to give effect to legislation enacted by the
    Congress.''

      An amendment relative to equal rights for men and women was proposed by
    the 2d session of the Ninety-second Congress on March 22, 1972, when it
    passed the Senate, having previously passed the House on October 12,
    1971. The seven-year deadline for ratification of the proposed amendment
    was extended to June 30, 1982, by the 2d session of the Ninety-fifth
    Congress. The proposed amendment, which was not ratified by three-
    fourths of the States by June 30, 1982, is as follows:
    
      Joint Resolution Proposing an Amendment to the Constitution of the
    United States Relative to Equal Rights for Men and Women

      Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
    States of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House
    concurring therein), That the following article is proposed as an
    amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which shall be valid
    to all intents and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified by
    the legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven
    years from the date of its submission by the Congress:

                                 ``ARTICLE-
      ``Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or
    abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.
      ``Sec. 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate
    legislation, the provisions of this article.
      ``Sec. 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of
    ratification.''

      An amendment relative to voting rights for the District of Columbia was
    proposed by the 2d session of the Ninety-fifth Congress on August 22,
    1978, when it passed the Senate, having previously passed the House on
    March 2, 1978. The proposed amendment, which was not ratified by three-
    fourths of the States within the specified seven-year period, is as
    follows:

      Joint Resolution Proposing an Amendment to the Constitution To Provide
    for Representation of the District of Columbia in the Congress.

      Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
    of America in Congress assembled (two-thirds of each House concurring
    therein), That the following article is proposed as an amendment to the
    Constitution of the United States, which shall be valid to all intents
    and purposes as part of the Constitution when ratified by the
    legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years
    from the date of its submission by the Congress:

                                 ``ARTICLE-
      ``Section 1. For purposes of representation in the Congress, election of
    the President and Vice President, and article V of this Constitution,
    the District constituting the seat of government of the United States
    shall be treated as though it were a State.
      ``Sec. 2. The exercise of the rights and powers conferred under this
    article shall be by the people of the District constituting the seat of
    government, and as shall be provided by the Congress.
      ``Sec. 3. The twenty-third article of amendment to the Constitution of
    the United States is hereby repealed.
      ``Sec. 4. This article shall be inoperative, unless it shall have been
    ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of
    three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the date of
    its submission.''


-FOOTNOTE-
      (!12)The first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States
    (and two others, one of which failed of ratification and the other which
    later became the 27th amendment) were proposed to the legislatures of
    the several States by the First Congress on September 25, 1789. The
    first ten amendments were ratified by the following States, and the
    notifications of ratification by the Governors thereof were successively
    communicated by the President to Congress: New Jersey, November 20,
    1789; Maryland, December 19, 1789; North Carolina, December 22, 1789;
    South Carolina, January 19, 1790; New Hampshire, January 25, 1790;
    Delaware, January 28, 1790; New York, February 24, 1790; Pennsylvania,
    March 10, 1790; Rhode Island, June 7, 1790; Vermont, November 3, 1791;
    and Virginia, December 15, 1791.
       Ratification was completed on December 15, 1791.
       The amendments were subsequently ratified by the legislatures of
    Massachusetts, March 2, 1939; Georgia, March 18, 1939; and Connecticut,
    April 19, 1939.

      (!13)Only the 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th articles of amendment had
    numbers assigned to them at the time of ratification.

      (!14)This sentence has been superseded by section 3 of amendment XX.

      (!15)See amendment XIX and section 1 of amendment XXVI.
      
      (!16)Repealed by section 1 of amendment XXI.
      
      (!17)So in original. Probably should be ``departments''.

-End-


-CITE-
    ANALYTICAL INDEX TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES   01/03/07

-EXPCITE-
    ANALYTICAL INDEX TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES

-HEAD-
    ANALYTICAL INDEX TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES

-MISC1-

                                     A
    Abridged. The privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States
      shall not be. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Absent members, in such manner and under such penalties as it may
      provide. Each House is authorized to compel the attendance of
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Accounts of receipts and expenditures of public money shall be published
      from time to time. A statement of the
      ART. 1 SEC. 9 CL. 7

    Accusation. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall be informed
      of the cause and nature of the. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Accused shall have a speedy public trial. In all criminal prosecutions
      the. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be tried by an impartial jury of the State and district where
      the crime was committed. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _
    He shall be informed of the nature of the accusation. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _
    He shall be confronted with the witnesses against him. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor.
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have the assistance of counsel for his defense. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Actions at common law involving over twenty dollars shall be tried by
      jury. 
      [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Acts, records, and judicial proceedings of another State. Full faith and
      credit shall be given in each State to the
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Acts. Congress shall prescribe the manner of proving such acts, records,
      and proceedings
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Adjourn from day to day. A smaller number than a quorum of each House
      may
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place than that in
      which they shall be sitting. Neither House shall, during the session of
      Congress, without the consent of the other
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    Adjournment, the President may adjourn them to such time as he shall
      think proper. In case of disagreement between the two Houses as to
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Admiralty and maritime jurisdiction. The judicial power shall extend to
      all cases of
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Admitted by the Congress into this Union, but no new States shall be
      formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any other State. New States
      may be
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

      Nor shall any State be formed by the junction of two or more States,
	or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures and of
	Congress
        ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Adoption of the Constitution shall be valid. All debts and engagements
      contracted by the confederation and before the
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 1

    Advice and consent of the Senate. The President shall have power to
      make treaties by and with the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      To appoint ambassadors or other public ministers and consuls by and with
        the
        ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      To appoint all other officers of the United States not herein otherwise
        provided for by and with the
        ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Affirmation. Senators sitting to try impeachments shall be on oath or
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

      To be taken by the President of the United States. Form of the oath or
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 8

      No warrants shall be issued but upon probable cause and on oath or.
        [Amendments]
        ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

      To support the Constitution. Senators and Representatives, members of
        State legislatures, executive and judicial officers, both State and
        Federal, shall be bound by oath or
        ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Age. No person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained
      twenty-five years of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      No person shall be a Senator who shall not have attained thirty years of
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 3

      Right of citizens of the United States, who are eighteen years of age or
        older, to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or
        any State on account of age.
        [Amendments]
        ART. 26  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Agreement or compact with another State without the consent of Congress.
      No State shall enter into any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Aid and comfort. Treason against the United States shall consist in
      levying war against them, adhering to their enemies, and giving them
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Alliance or confederation. No State shall enter into any treaty of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Ambassadors, or other public ministers and consuls. The President may
    appoint
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      The judicial power of the United States shall extend to all cases
        affecting
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Amendments to the Constitution. Whenever two-thirds of both Houses
      shall deem it necessary, Congress shall propose
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

      On application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the States, Congress
        shall call a convention to propose
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

      Shall be valid when ratified by the legislatures of, or by conventions
        in, three-fourths of the States
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Answer for a capital or infamous crime unless on presentment of a grand
      jury. No person shall be held to. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

      Except in cases in the land or naval forces, or in the militia when in
        actual service. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Appellate jurisdiction both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and
      under such regulations as Congress shall make. In what cases the Supreme
      Court shall have
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Application of the legislature or the executive of a State. The United
      States shall protect each State against invasion and domestic violence
      on the
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the States, Congress
      shall call a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution. On
      the
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Appointment. Of officers and authority to train the militia reserved to
      the States respectively
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 16

      Of such inferior officers as they may think proper in the President
        alone. Congress may by law vest the
        ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      In the courts of law or in the heads of departments. Congress may by law
        vest the
        ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

      Of Presidential and Vice-Presidential electors. District of Columbia to
        have power of. 
        [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Apportionment of representation and direct taxation among the several
      States. Provisions relating to the
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

      Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes on incomes, from
        whatever source derived, without apportionment among the several States.
        [Amendments]
      ART. 16  SEC. _  CL. _

      Of Representatives among the several States. Provisions relating to the.
        [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. _  CL. _

    Appropriate legislation. Congress shall have power to make all laws
      necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers,
      and all other powers vested by the Constitution in the Government of the
      United States, or in any department or officer thereof
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

      Congress shall have power to enforce the thirteenth article, prohibiting
        slavery by. [Amendments]
        ART. 13  SEC. 2  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the fourteenth
        article by. [Amendments]
        ART. 14  SEC. 5  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the fifteenth
        article by. [Amendments]
        ART. 15  SEC. 2  CL. _

      Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce
        the provisions of the eighteenth article. [Amendments]
        ART. 18  SEC. 2  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the nineteenth
        article. 
        [Amendments]
        ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the twenty-third
        article by. 
        [Amendments]
        ART. 23  SEC. 2  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the twenty-fourth
        article by. 
        [Amendments]
        ART. 24  SEC. 2  CL. _

      Congress shall have power to enforce the provisions of the twenty-sixth
        article by. 
        [Amendments]
        ART. 26  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Appropriation of money for raising and supporting armies shall be for a
      longer term than two years. But no
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 12

    Appropriations made by law. No money shall be drawn from the Treasury
      but in consequence of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    Approve and sign a bill before it shall become a law. The President
    shall
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

      He shall return it to the House in which it originated, with his
        objections, if he does not
        ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Armies, but no appropriation for that use shall be for a longer term
      than two years. Congress shall have power to raise and support
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 12

    Armies. Congress shall make rules for the government and regulation of
      the land and naval forces
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 14

    Arms shall not be infringed. A well-regulated militia being necessary to
      the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear.
      [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Arrest during their attendance at the session of their respective
      Houses, and in going to and returning from the same. Members shall in
      all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be
      privileged from
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Arsenals. Congress shall exercise exclusive authority over all places
      purchased for the erection of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Articles exported from any State. No tax or duty shall be laid on
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 5

    Arts by securing to authors and inventors their patent rights. Congress
      may promote the progress of science and the useful
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Assistance of counsel for his defense. In all criminal prosecutions the
      accused shall have the. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Assumption of the debt or obligations incurred in aid of rebellion or
      insurrection against the United States. Provisions against the.
      [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed. No bill of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 3

    Attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of
      contracts. No State shall pass any bill of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Attainder of treason shall not work corruption of blood or forfeiture,
      except during the life of the person attainted
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Authors and inventors the exclusive right to their writings and
      inventions. Congress shall have power to secure to
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

                               B

    Bail. Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines nor
      cruel and unusual punishments imposed. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

    Ballot for President and Vice President. The electors shall vote by.
      [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Ballot. If no person have a majority of the electoral votes for
      President and Vice President, the House of Representatives shall
      immediately choose the President by. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Bankruptcies. Congress shall have power to pass uniform laws on the
      subject of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 4

    Basis of representation among the several States. Provisions relating to
    the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Bear arms shall not be infringed. A well-regulated militia being
    necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to
    keep and. [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Behavior. The judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their
    offices during good
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Bill of attainder or ex post facto law shall be passed. No
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 3

    Bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation
    of contracts. No State shall pass any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Bills of credit. No State shall emit
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of
    Representatives. All
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    Bills which shall have passed the Senate and House of Representatives
    shall, before they become laws, be presented to the President
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    If he approve, he shall sign them; if he disapprove, he shall return
    them, with his objections, to that House in which they originated
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Upon the reconsideration of a bill returned by the President with his
    objections, if two-thirds of each House agree to pass the same, it shall
    become a law
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Upon the reconsideration of a bill returned by the President, the
    question shall be taken by yeas and nays
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Not returned by the President within ten days (Sundays excepted) shall,
    unless Congress adjourn, become laws
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Borrow money on the credit of the United States. Congress shall have
    power to
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 2

    Bounties and pensions, shall not be questioned. The validity of the
    public debt incurred in suppressing insurrection and rebellion against
    the United States, including the debt for. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Breach of the peace, shall be privileged from arrest while attending the
    session, and in going to and returning from the same. Senators and
    Representatives, except for treason, felony, and
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. The President, Vice
    President, and all civil officers shall be removed on impeachment for
    and conviction of treason
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

                               C

    Capital or otherwise infamous crime, unless on indictment of a grand
    jury, except in certain specified cases. No person shall be held to
    answer for a. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Capitation or other direct tax shall be laid unless in proportion to the
    census or enumeration. No
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 4

    Captures on land and water. Congress shall make rules concerning
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    Casting vote. The Vice President shall have no vote unless the Senate be
    equally divided
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    Census or enumeration. Of the inhabitants shall be made within three
    years after the first meeting of Congress, and within every subsequent
    term of ten years thereafter
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    No capitation or other direct tax shall be laid except in proportion to
    the
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 4

    Chief Justice shall preside when the President of the United States is
    tried upon impeachment. The
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Choosing the electors and the day on which they shall give their votes,
    which shall be the same throughout the United States. Congress may
    determine the time of
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    Citizen of the United States at the adoption of the Constitution shall
    be eligible to the office of President. No person not a natural-born
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Citizen of the United States. No person shall be a Senator who shall
    not have attained the age of thirty years, and been nine years a
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 3

    No person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained the age
    of twenty-five years, and been seven years a
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Right of citizens to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
    States or any State on account of sex. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Right to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or
    any State for failure to pay any poll tax or other tax. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Right to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or
    any State to any citizen eighteen years or older, on account of age.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 26  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Citizenship. Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the
    privileges and immunities of citizens of the several States
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
    jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State
    in which they reside. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
    privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
    without due process of law. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
    the laws. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Citizens or subjects of a foreign state. The judicial power of the
    United States shall not extend to suits in law or equity brought against
    one of the States by the citizens of another State, or by. [Amendments]
      ART. 11  SEC. _  CL. _

    Civil officers of the United States shall, on impeachment for and
    conviction of treason, bribery, and other high crimes and misdemeanors
    be removed. All
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Claims of the United States or any particular State in the territory or
    public property. Nothing in this Constitution shall be construed to
    prejudice
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Classification of Senators. Immediately after they shall be assembled
    after the first election, they shall be divided as equally as may be
    into three classes
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    The seats of the Senators of the first class shall be vacated at the
    expiration of the second year
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    The seats of the Senators of the second class at the expiration of the
    fourth year
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    The seats of the Senators of the third class at the expiration of the
    sixth year
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Coin a tender in payment of debts. No State shall make anything but gold
    and silver
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Coin money and regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin. Congress
    shall have power to
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    Coin of the United States. Congress shall provide for punishing the
    counterfeiting the securities and current
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 6

    Color, or previous condition of servitude. The right of citizens of the
    United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
    States or by any State on account of race. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Comfort. Treason against the United States shall consist in levying war
    against them, and giving their enemies aid and
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, and of the militia when in
    actual service. The President shall be
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Commerce with foreign nations, among the States, and with Indian tribes.
    Congress shall have power to regulate
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    Commerce or revenue. No preference shall be given to the ports of one
    State over those of another by any regulation of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Vessels clearing from the ports of one State shall not pay duties in
    those of another
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Commissions to expire at the end of the next session. The President may
    fill vacancies that happen in the recess of the Senate by granting
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Common defense, promote the general welfare, &c. To insure the.
    [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Common defense and general welfare. Congress shall have power to provide
    for the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Common law, where the amount involved exceeds twenty dollars, shall be
    tried by jury. Suits at. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    No fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise reexamined in any court of
    the United States than according to the rules of the. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Compact with another State. No State shall, without consent of Congress,
    enter into any agreement or
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Compact with a foreign power. No State shall, without the consent of
    Congress, enter into any agreement or
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Compensation of Senators and Representatives to be ascertained by law
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Compensation of the President shall not be increased nor diminished
    during the period for which he shall be elected.
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 7

    Compensation of the judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall not
    be diminished during their continuance in office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Compensation. Private property shall not be taken for public use without
    just. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor. In criminal
    prosecutions the accused shall have. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Confederation. No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    All debts contracted and engagements entered into before the adoption of
    this Constitution shall be valid against the United States under it, as
    under the
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 1

    Confession in open court. Conviction of treason shall be on the
    testimony of two persons to the overt act, or upon
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Congress of the United States. All legislative powers shall be vested
    in a
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Shall assemble at least once in every year, which shall be on the first
    Monday of December, unless they by law appoint a different day
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 2

    May at any time alter regulations for elections of Senators and
    Representatives, except as to the places of choosing Senators
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Each House shall be the judge of the elections, returns, and
    qualifications of its own members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    A majority of each House shall constitute a quorum to do business
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    A smaller number may adjourn from day to day and compel the attendance
    of absent members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Each House may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish its
    members for disorderly behavior, and, with the concurrence of two-
    thirds, expel a member
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Each House shall keep a journal of its proceedings
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

    Neither House, during the session of Congress, shall, without the
    consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    Senators and Representatives shall receive a compensation to be
    ascertained by law
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    They shall in all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of peace, be
    privileged from arrest during attendance at their respective Houses, and
    in going to and returning from the same
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No Senator or Representative shall, during his term, be appointed to any
    civil office which shall have been created, or of which the emoluments
    shall have been increased, during such term
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person holding any office under the United States, shall, while in
    office, be a member of either House of Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of
    Representatives
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    Proceedings in cases of bills returned by the President with his
    objections
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Shall have power to lay and collect duties, imposts, and excises, pay
    the debts, and provide for the common defense and general welfare
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Shall have power to borrow money on the credit of the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 2

    To regulate foreign and domestic commerce, and with the Indian tribes
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    To establish uniform rule of naturalization and uniform laws on the
    subject of bankruptcies
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 4

    To coin money, regulate its value and the value of foreign coin, and to
    fix the standard of weights and measures
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    To punish counterfeiting of securities and current coin of the United
    States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 6

    To establish post-offices and post-roads
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 7

    To promote the progress of science and the useful arts
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    To constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    To define and punish piracies and felonies on the high seas and to
    punish offenses against the law of nations
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    To declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules
    concerning captures on land and water
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    To raise and support armies, but no appropriation of money to that use
    shall be for a longer term than two years
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 12

    To provide and maintain a Navy
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 13

    To make rules for the government of the Army and Navy
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 14

    To call out the militia to execute the laws, suppress insurrections, and
    repel invasions
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    To provide for organizing, arming, and equipping the militia
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 16

    To exercise exclusive legislation over the District fixed for the seat
    of government, and over forts, magazines, arsenals, and dockyards
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    To make all laws necessary and proper to carry into execution all powers
    vested by the Constitution in the Government of the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

    No person holding any office under the United States shall accept of any
    present, emolument, office, or title of any kind from any foreign state,
    without the consent of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    May determine the time of choosing the electors for President and Vice
    President and the day on which they shall give their votes
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    The President may, on extraordinary occasions, convene either House of
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    The manner in which the acts, records, and judicial proceedings of the
    States shall be prescribed by
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    New States may be admitted by Congress into this Union
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Shall have power to make all needful rules and regulations respecting
    the territory or other property belonging to the United States
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Amendments to the Constitution shall be proposed whenever it shall be
    deemed necessary by two-thirds of both Houses of
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the thirteenth
    amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 13  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Persons engaged in insurrection or rebellion against the United States
    disqualified for Senators or Representatives in. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But such disqualification may be removed by a vote of two-thirds of both
    Houses of. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the fourteenth
    amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 5  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the fifteenth
    amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the nineteenth
    amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Sessions, time of assembling. [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 2  CL. _

    To direct appointment of electors for President and Vice President by
    District of Columbia. [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the twenty-
    third amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the twenty-
    fourth amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Confirmation by majority vote of Vice President nominated by the
    President where vacancy in office occurs. [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Shall decide the issue of the inability of the President to discharge
    the powers and duties of his office. [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Shall have power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the twenty-
    sixth amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 26  SEC. 2  CL. _

    No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
    Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives
    shall have intervened. [Amendments]
      ART. 27  SEC. _  CL. _

    Consent. No State shall be deprived of its equal suffrage in the Senate
    without its
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Consent of Congress. No person holding any office of profit or trust
    under the United States shall accept of any present, emolument, office,
    or title of any kind whatever, from any king, prince, or foreign
    potentate, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    No State shall lay any imposts, or duties on imports, except what may be
    absolutely necessary for executing its inspection laws, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    No State shall lay any duty of tonnage, keep troops or ships of war in
    time of peace, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    No State shall enter into any agreement or compact with another State,
    or with a foreign power, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    No State shall engage in war unless actually invaded, or in such
    imminent danger as will not admit of delay, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    No new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of any
    other State, nor any State be formed by the junction of two or more
    States, or parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures
    thereof, as well as the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Consent of the legislature of the State in which the same may be.
    Congress shall exercise exclusive authority over all places purchased
    for the erection of forts, magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other
    needful buildings by the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Consent of the legislatures of the States and of Congress. No States
    shall be formed by the junction of two or more States or parts of States
    without the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Consent of the other. Neither House, during the session of Congress,
    shall adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other place than that
    in which they shall be sitting, without the
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    Consent of the owner. No soldier shall be quartered in time of peace in
    any house without the. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    Consent of the Senate. The President shall have power to make treaties,
    by and with the advice and
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    The President shall appoint ambassadors, other public ministers and
    consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other officers created by
    law and not otherwise herein provided for, by and with the advice and
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Constitution, in the Government of the United States, or in any
    department or officer thereof. Congress shall have power to pass all
    laws necessary to the execution of the powers vested by the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

    Constitution, shall be eligible to the office of President. No person
    except a natural-born citizen, or a citizen at the time of the adoption
    of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Constitution. The President, before he enters upon the execution of his
    office, shall take an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 8

    Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States. The judicial
    power shall extend to all cases arising under the
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Constitution shall be so construed as to prejudice any claims of the
    United States, or of any State (in respect to territory or other
    property of the United States). Nothing in the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Constitution. The manner in which amendments may be proposed and
    ratified
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Constitution as under the Confederation shall be valid. All debts and
    engagements contracted before the adoption of the
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 1

    Constitution and the laws made in pursuance thereof, and all treaties
    made, or which shall be made, by the United States, shall be the supreme
    law of the land. The
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    The judges in every State, anything in the constitution or laws of a
    State to the contrary notwithstanding, shall be bound thereby
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Constitution. All officers, legislative, executive, and judicial, of the
    United States, and of the several States, shall be bound by an oath to
    support the
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    But no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification for any
    office or public trust
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Constitution between the States so ratifying the same. The ratification
    of the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the
    establishment of the
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or
    disparage others retained by the people. The enumeration in the.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
    States respectively or to the people. Powers not delegated to the United
    States by the. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Constitution, and then engaged in rebellion against the United States.
    Disqualification for office imposed upon certain class of persons who
    took an oath to support the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Constitution. Done in convention by the unanimous consent of the States
    present, September 17, 1787
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Contracts. No State shall pass any ex post facto law, or law impairing
    the obligation of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Controversies to which the United States shall be a party: between two
    or more States; between a State and citizens of another State; between
    citizens of different States; between citizens of the same State
    claiming lands under grants of different States; between a State or its
    citizens and foreign states, citizens, or subjects. The judicial power
    shall extend to
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Convene Congress or either House, on extraordinary occasions. The
    President may
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution. Congress, on
    the application of two-thirds of the legislatures of the States, may
    call a
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Convention, by the unanimous consent of the States present on the 17th
    of September, 1787. Adoption of the Constitution in
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Conventions of nine States shall be sufficient for the establishment of
    the Constitution. The ratification of the
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Conviction in cases of impeachment shall not be had without the
    concurrence of two-thirds of the members present
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Copyrights to authors for limited times. Congress shall have power to
    provide for
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Corruption of blood. Attainder of treason shall not work
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Counsel for his defense. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
    have the assistance of. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Counterfeiting the securities and current coin of the United States.
    Congress shall provide for the punishment of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 6

    Courts. Congress shall have power to constitute tribunals inferior to
    the Supreme Court
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    Courts of law. Congress may by law vest the appointment of such inferior
    officers as they think proper in the President alone, in the heads of
    departments, or in the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Courts as Congress may establish. The judicial power of the United
    States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and such inferior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Courts. The judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their
    offices during good behavior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Their compensation shall not be diminished during their continuance in
    office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Credit. No State shall emit bills of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Credit of the United States. Congress shall have power to borrow money
    on the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 2

    Credit shall be given in every other State to the public acts, records,
    and judicial proceedings of each State. Full faith and
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Crime, unless on a presentment of a grand jury. No person shall be held
    to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Except in cases in the military and naval forces, or in the militia when
    in actual service. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Crimes and misdemeanors. The President, Vice President, and all civil
    officers shall be removed on impeachment for and conviction of treason,
    bribery, or other
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be tried by jury. All
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    They shall be tried in the State within which they may be committed
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    When not committed in a State, they shall be tried at the places which
    Congress may by law have provided
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Criminal prosecutions, the accused shall have a speedy and public trial
    by jury in the State and district where the crime was committed. In all.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be confronted with the witnesses against him. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have the assistance of counsel in his defense. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Criminate himself. No person as a witness shall be compelled to.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. Excessive bail shall not be
    required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

                               D

    Danger as will not admit of delay. No State shall, without the consent
    of Congress, engage in war, unless actually invaded, or in such imminent
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Day on which they shall vote for President and Vice President, which
    shall be the same throughout the United States. Congress may determine
    the time of choosing the electors, and the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    Day to day, and may be authorized to compel the attendance of absent
    members. A smaller number than a quorum of each House may adjourn from
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Death, resignation, or inability of the President. In case of, powers
    and duties of his office shall devolve on the Vice President
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Congress may provide by law for the case of the removal
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Debt of the United States, including debts for pensions and bounties
    incurred in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be
    questioned. The validity of the public. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Debts. No State shall make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in
    payment of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Debts and provide for the common defense and general welfare of the
    United States. Congress shall have power to pay the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Debts and engagements contracted before the adoption of this
    Constitution shall be as valid against the United States, under it, as
    under the Confederation
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 1

    Debts or obligations incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion
    against the United States, or claims for the loss or emancipation of any
    slave. Neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Declare war, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules
    concerning captures on land and water. Congress shall have power to
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    Defense, promote the general welfare, &c. To insure the common.
    [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Defense and general welfare throughout the United States. Congress shall
    have power to pay the debts and provide for the common
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Defense. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the
    assistance of counsel for his. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Delaware entitled to one Representative in the first Congress.
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Delay. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, engage in war
    unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the States, are
    reserved to the States or to the people. The powers not. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Deny or disparage others retained by the people. The enumeration in the
    Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Departments upon any subject relating to their duties. The President may
    require the written opinion of the principal officers in each of the
    executive
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Departments. Congress may by law vest the appointment of inferior
    officers in the heads of
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Direct tax shall be laid unless in proportion to the census or
    enumeration. No capitation or other
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 4

    Direct taxes and Representatives, how apportioned among the several
    States
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Disability of the President and Vice President. Provisions in case of
    the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Disability. No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress,
    or presidential elector, or hold any office, civil or military, under
    the United States, or any State, who having previously taken an oath as
    a legislative, executive, or judicial officer of the United States, or
    of any State, to support the Constitution, afterward engaged in
    insurrection or rebellion against the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Disagreement between the two Houses as to the time of adjournment, the
    President may adjourn them to such time as he may think proper. In case
    of
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Disorderly behavior. Each House may punish its members for
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    And with the concurrence of two-thirds expel a member.
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Disparage others retained by the people. The enumeration in the
    Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Disqualification. No Senator or Representative shall, during the time
    for which he was elected, be appointed to any office under the United
    States which shall have been created or its emoluments increased during
    such term
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person holding any office under the United States shall be a member
    of either House during his continuance in office
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person shall be a member of either House, presidential elector, or
    hold any office under the United States, or any State, who, having
    previously sworn to support the Constitution, afterward engaged in
    insurrection or rebellion. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disability. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    District of Columbia. Congress shall exercise exclusive legislation in
    all cases over the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Electors for President and Vice President, appointment in such manner as
    the Congress may direct. [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Dockyards. Congress shall have exclusive authority over all places
    purchased for the erection of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, &c. To insure.
    [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Domestic violence. The United States shall protect each State against
    invasion and
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Due process of law. No person shall be compelled, in any criminal case,
    to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
    property without. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    No State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Duties and powers of the office of President, in case of his death,
    removal, or inability to act, shall devolve on the Vice President
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    In case of the disability of the President and Vice President, Congress
    shall declare what officer shall act
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Duties, imposts, and excises. Congress shall have power to lay and
    collect taxes
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Shall be uniform throughout the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Duties shall be laid on articles exported from any State. No tax or
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 5

    Duties in another State. Vessels clearing in the ports of one State
    shall not be obliged to pay
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    On imports and exports, without the consent of Congress, except where
    necessary for executing its inspection laws. No State shall lay any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    The net produce of all such duties shall be for the use of the Treasury
    of the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    All laws laying such duties shall be subject to the revision and control
    of Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Duty of tonnage without the consent of Congress. No State shall lay any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

                               E

    Eighteenth Amendment. Repeal. [Amendments]
      ART. 21  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Election of President and Vice President. Congress may determine the
    day for the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    Shall be the same throughout the United States. The day of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    Elections. The right of citizens of the United States to vote in shall
    not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of
    failure to pay any poll tax or other tax. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Elections for Senators and Representatives. The legislatures of the
    States shall prescribe the times, places, and manner of holding
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    But Congress may, at any time, alter such regulations, except as to the
    places of choosing Senators
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Returns and qualifications of its own members. Each House shall be the
    judge of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Senators elected by the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Electors for members of the House of Representatives. Qualifications of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Electors for Senators. Qualifications of. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Electors for President and Vice President. Each State shall appoint, in
    such manner as the legislature thereof may direct, a number of electors
    equal to the whole number of Senators and Representatives to which the
    State may be entitled in the Congress
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    But no Senator or Representative, or person holding an office of trust
    or profit under the United States, shall be appointed an elector
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    Congress may determine the time of choosing the electors and the day on
    which they shall give their votes
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    Which day shall be the same throughout the United States
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    The electors shall meet in their respective States and vote by ballot
    for President and Vice President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an
    inhabitant of the same State with themselves. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The District of Columbia to appoint, in such manner as the Congress may
    direct, a number of electors equal to the whole number of Senators and
    Representatives to which the District would be entitled if a State.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Electors shall name, in their ballots, the person voted for as
    President; and in distinct ballots the person voted for as Vice
    President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    They shall make distinct lists of the persons voted for as President and
    of persons voted for as Vice President, which they shall sign and
    certify, and transmit sealed to the seat of government, directed to the
    President of the Senate. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person having taken an oath as a legislative, executive or judicial
    officer of the United States, or of any State, and afterwards engaged in
    insurrection or rebellion against the United States, shall be an elector
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disability. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Emancipation of any slave shall be held to be illegal and void. Claims
    for the loss or. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Emit bills of credit. No State shall
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Emolument of any kind from any king, prince, or foreign state, without
    the consent of Congress. No person holding any office under the United
    States shall accept any
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    Enemies. Treason shall consist in levying war against the United States,
    in adhering to, or giving aid and comfort to their
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Engagements contracted before the adoption of this Constitution shall be
    valid. All debts and
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 1

    Enumeration of the inhabitants shall be made within three years after
    the first meeting of Congress, and within every subsequent term of ten
    years thereafter
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Ratio of representation not to exceed one for every 30,000 until the
    first enumeration shall be made
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Income tax authorized without regard to. [Amendments]
      ART. 16  SEC. _  CL. _

    Enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed
    to deny or disparage others retained by the people. The. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Equal protection of the laws. No State shall deny to any person within
    its jurisdiction the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Equal suffrage in the Senate. No State shall be deprived without its
    consent, of its
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Establishment of this Constitution between the States ratifying the
    same. The ratification of nine States shall be sufficient for the
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor
    cruel and unusual punishments inflicted. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

    Excises. Congress shall have power to lay and collect taxes, duties,
    imposts, and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Shall be uniform throughout the United States. All duties, imposts, and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Exclusive legislation, in all cases, over such district as may become
    the seat of government. Congress shall exercise
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Over all places purchased for the erection of forts, magazines,
    arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings. Congress shall
    exercise
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Executive of a State. The United States shall protect each State against
    invasion and domestic violence, on the application of the legislature or
    the
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Executive and judicial officers of the United States and of the several
    States shall be bound by an oath to support the Constitution
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Executive departments. On subjects relating to their duties the
    President may require the written opinions of the principal officers in
    each of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Congress may by law vest the appointment of inferior officers in the
    heads of
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Executive power shall be vested in a President of the United States of
    America. The
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    Expel a member. Each House, with the concurrence of two-thirds, may
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Expenditures of public money shall be published from time to time. A
    regular statement of the receipts and
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    Exportations from any State. No tax or duty shall be laid on
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 5

    Exports or imports, except upon certain conditions. No State shall,
    without the consent of Congress, lay any duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Laid by any State, shall be for the use of the Treasury. The net produce
    of all duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Shall be subject to the revision and control of Congress. All laws of
    the States laying duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Ex post facto law shall be passed. No bill of attainder or
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 3

    Ex post facto law, or law impairing the obligation of contracts. No
    State shall pass any bill of attainder
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Extraordinary occasions. The President may convene both Houses, or
    either House of Congress, on
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

                               F

    Faith and credit in each State shall be given to the acts, records, and
    judicial proceedings of another State. Full
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Felony, and breach of the peace. Members of Congress shall not be
    privileged from arrest for treason
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Felonies committed on the high seas. Congress shall have power to define
    and punish piracies and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    Fines. Excessive fines shall not be imposed. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

    Foreign coin. Congress shall have power to coin money, fix the standard
    of weights and measures, and to regulate the value of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    Foreign nations, among the States, and with the Indian tribes. Congress
    shall have power to regulate commerce with
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    Foreign power. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, enter
    into any compact or agreement with any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Forfeiture, except during the life of the person attainted. Attainder of
    treason shall not work
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Formation of new States. Provisions relating to the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Form of government. The United States shall guarantee to every State in
    this Union a republican
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    And shall protect each of them against invasion; and on application of
    the legislature or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be
    convened), against domestic violence
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Forts, magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings.
    Congress shall exercise exclusive authority over all places purchased
    for the erection of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Freedom of speech or the press. Congress shall make no law abridging
    the. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be
    infringed. A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of
    a. [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Fugitives from crime found in another State shall, on demand, be
    delivered up to the authorities of the State from which they may flee
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Fugitives from service or labor in one State, escaping into another
    State, shall be delivered up to the party to whom such service or labor
    may be due
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 3

                               G

    General welfare and secure the blessings of liberty, &c. To promote the.
    [Preamble.]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    General welfare. Congress shall have power to provide for the common
    defense and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Georgia shall be entitled to three Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Gold and silver coin a tender in payment of debts. No State shall make
    anything but
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Good behavior. The judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold
    their offices during
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Government. The United States shall guarantee to every State in this
    Union a republican form of
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    And shall protect each of them against invasion, and on application of
    the legislature or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be
    convened), against domestic violence
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Grand jury. No person shall be held to answer for a capital or
    otherwise infamous crime, unless on the presentment of a. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Except in cases arising in the land and naval forces, and in the militia
    when in actual service. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Guarantee to every State in this Union a republican form of government.
    The United States shall
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    And shall protect each of them against invasion; and on application of
    the legislature or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be
    convened), against domestic violence
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

                               H

    Habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless in cases of rebellion or
    invasion. The writ of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 2

    Heads of departments. Congress may, by law, vest the appointment of
    inferior officers in the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    On any subject relating to their duties, the President may require the
    written opinion of the principal officers in each of the executive
    departments
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    High crimes and misdemeanors. The President, Vice President, and all
    civil officers shall be removed on impeachment for and conviction of
    treason, bribery, or other
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    House of Representatives. Congress shall consist of a Senate and
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Shall be composed of members chosen every second year
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Qualifications of electors for members of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    No person shall be a member who shall not have attained the age of
    twenty-five years, and been seven years a citizen of the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    The executives of the several States shall issue writs of election to
    fill vacancies in the
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    Shall choose their Speaker and other officers
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    Shall have the sole power of impeachment
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    Shall be the judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications of its
    own members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    A majority shall constitute a quorum to do business
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Less than a majority may adjourn from day to day, and compel the
    attendance of absent members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    May determine its own rules of proceedings
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    May punish its members for disorderly behavior, and, with the
    concurrence of two-thirds, expel a member
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Shall keep a journal of its proceedings
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

    Shall not adjourn for more than three days during the session of
    Congress without the consent of the Senate
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    Members shall not be questioned for any speech or debate in either House
    or in any other place
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No person holding any office under the United States shall, while
    holding such office, be a member of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person, while a member of either House, shall be appointed to an
    office which shall have been created or the emoluments increased during
    his membership
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    The votes for President and Vice President shall be counted in the
    presence of the Senate and. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    If no person have a majority of electoral votes, then from the three
    highest on the list the House of Representatives shall immediately, by
    ballot, choose a President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    They shall vote by States, each State counting one vote. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    A quorum shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the
    States, and a majority of all the States shall be necessary to the
    choice of a President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person having as a legislative, executive, or judicial officer of the
    United States, or of any State, taken an oath to support the
    Constitution, and afterwards engaged in insurrection or rebellion
    against the United States, shall be a member of the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each house, remove such
    disability. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

                               I

    Imminent danger as will not admit of delay. No State shall, without the
    consent of Congress, engage in war, unless actually invaded or in such
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Immunities. Members of Congress shall, in all cases except treason,
    felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest during their
    attendance at the session of their respective houses, and in going and
    returning from the same
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No soldier shall be quartered in any house without the consent of the
    owner in time of peace. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person shall be twice put in jeopardy of life and limb for the same
    offense. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
    jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State
    in which they reside. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
    privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
    without due process of law. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
    the law. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Impeachment. The President may grant reprieves and pardons except in
    cases of
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    The House of Representatives shall have the sole power of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    Impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery, and other high
    crimes and misdemeanors. The President, Vice President, and all civil
    officers shall be removed upon
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Impeachments. The Senate shall have the sole power to try all
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    The Senate shall be on oath, or affirmation, when sitting for the trial
    of
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    When the President of the United States is tried the Chief Justice shall
    preside
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    No person shall be convicted without the concurrence of two-thirds of
    the members present
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Judgment shall not extend beyond removal from office and
    disqualification to hold office
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    But the party convicted shall be liable to indictment and punishment
    according to law
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    Importation of slaves prior to 1808 shall not be prohibited by the
    Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 1

    But a tax or duty of ten dollars for each person may be imposed on such
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 1

    Imports or exports except what may be absolutely necessary for executing
    its inspection laws. No State shall, without the consent of Congress,
    lay any imposts or duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Imports or exports laid by any State shall be for the use of the
    Treasury. The net produce of all duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Imports or exports shall be subject to the revision and control of
    Congress. All laws of States laying duties on
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Imposts and excises. Congress shall have power to lay and collect
    taxes, duties
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Shall be uniform throughout the United States. All taxes, duties
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Inability of the President. The powers and duties of his office shall
    devolve on the Vice President. In case of the death, resignation, or
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    The Vice President shall succeed to the office of the President. In case
    of the death, resignation, or removal, or [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Inability of the President or Vice President. Congress may provide by
    law for the case of the removal, death, resignation, or
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Income taxes. Congress shall have power to lay and collect without
    apportionment among the several States, and without regard to any census
    or enumeration. [Amendments]
      ART. 16  SEC. _  CL. _

    Indian tribes. Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    Indictment or presentment of a grand jury. No person shall be held to
    answer for a capital or infamous crime unless on [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Except in cases arising in the land and naval forces, and in the militia
    when in actual service. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Indictment, trial, judgment, and punishment, according to law. The party
    convicted in case of impeachment shall nevertheless be liable and
    subject to
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    Infamous crime unless on presentment or indictment of a grand jury. No
    person shall be held to answer for a capital or. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Inferior courts. Congress shall have power to constitute tribunals
    inferior to the Supreme Court
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    Inferior courts as Congress may establish. The judicial power of the
    United States shall be vested in one Supreme Court and such
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The judges of both the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their
    offices during good behavior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Their compensation shall not be diminished during their continuance in
    office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Inferior officers, Congress, if they think proper, may by law vest the
    appointment of in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the
    heads of Departments
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Inhabitant of the State for which he shall be chosen. No person shall be
    a Senator who shall not have attained the age of thirty years, been nine
    years a citizen of the United States, and who shall not, when elected,
    be an
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 3

    Insurrection or rebellion against the United States. No person shall be
    a Senator or Representative in Congress, or presidential elector, or
    hold any office, civil or military, under the United States, or any
    State, who, having taken an oath as a legislative, executive, or
    judicial officer of the United States, or of a State, afterwards engaged
    in. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disabilities. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Debts declared illegal and void which were contracted in aid of.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Insurrections and repel invasions. Congress shall provide for calling
    forth the militia to suppress
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    Intoxicating liquors. Prohibition of manufacture, sale, transportation,
    importation, or exportation of. [Amendments]
      ART. 18  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Repeal of Eighteenth Amendment. [Amendments]
      ART. 21  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Transportation or importation into any State, Territory or possession,
    for delivery or use therein, in violation of their laws, prohibited.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 21  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Invasion. No State shall, without the consent of Congress, engage in
    war unless actually invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not
    admit of delay
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    The writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless in case of
    rebellion or
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 1

    Invasion and domestic violence. The United States shall protect each
    State against
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Invasions. Congress shall provide for calling forth the militia to
    suppress insurrections and repel
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    Inventors and authors in their inventions and writings. Congress may
    pass laws to secure for limited times exclusive rights to
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime, abolished in
    the United States. Slavery and. [Amendments]
      ART. 13  SEC. 1  CL. _

                               J

    Jeopardy of life and limb for the same offense. No person shall be twice
    put in. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Journal of its proceedings. Each House shall keep a
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

    Judges in every State shall be bound by the Constitution, the laws and
    treaties of the United States, which shall be the supreme law of the
    land
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their offices
    during good behavior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Their compensation shall not be diminished during their continuance in
    office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not extend further than to
    removal from office, and disqualification to hold any office of honor,
    trust, or profit under the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    But the party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to
    indictment, trial, judgment, and punishment according to law
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    Judicial power of the United States. Congress shall have power to
    constitute tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    The judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one Supreme
    Court, and in such inferior courts as Congress may from time to time
    ordain and establish
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The judges of the Supreme and inferior courts shall hold their offices
    during good behavior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Their compensation shall not be diminished during their continuance in
    office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    It shall extend to all cases in law and equity arising under the
    Constitution, laws, and treaties of the United States
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers, and consuls
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To all cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To controversies to which the United States shall be a party
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To controversies between two or more States
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To controversies between a State and citizens of another State
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    [Amendments]
      ART. 11  SEC. _  CL. _

    To controversies between citizens of different States
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of different
    States
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    To controversies between a State or its citizens and foreign states,
    citizens, or subjects
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    In all cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls,
    and those in which a State shall be a party, the Supreme Court shall
    have original jurisdiction
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    In all other cases before mentioned, it shall have appellate
    jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under
    such regulations as Congress shall make
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by
    jury
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    The trial shall be held in the State where the crimes shall have been
    committed
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    But when not committed in a State, the trial shall be at such place or
    places as Congress may by law have directed
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    The judicial power of the United States shall not be held to extend to
    any suit in law or equity commenced or prosecuted against one of the
    United States by citizens of another State, or by citizens or subjects
    of any Foreign State. [Amendments]
      ART. 11  SEC. _  CL. _

    Judicial proceedings of every other State. Full faith and credit shall
    be given in each State to the acts, records, and
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Congress shall prescribe the manner of proving such acts, records, and
    proceedings
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Judicial and executive officers of the United States and of the several
    States shall be bound by an oath to support the Constitution
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Judiciary. The Supreme Court shall have original jurisdiction in all
    cases affecting ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, and
    those in which a State may be a party
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction both as to law and
    fact, with such exceptions and regulations as Congress may make
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Junction of two or more States or parts of States without the consent of
    the legislatures and of Congress. No State shall be formed by the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Jurisdiction of another State. No new State shall, without the consent
    of Congress, be formed or erected within the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Jurisdiction, both as to law and fact, with such exceptions and under
    such regulations as Congress may make. The Supreme Court shall have
    appellate
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Jurisdiction. In all cases affecting ambassadors and other public
    ministers and consuls, and in cases where a State is a party, the
    Supreme Court shall have original
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Jury. The trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be
    by
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have a speedy and public
    trial by. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    All suits at common law, where the value exceeds twenty dollars, shall
    be tried by. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Where a fact has been tried by a jury it shall not be reexamined except
    by the rules of the common law. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Just compensation. Private property shall not be taken for public use
    without. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Justice, insure domestic tranquility, &c. To establish. [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

                               L

    Labor, in one State escaping into another State shall be delivered up to
    the party to whom such service or labor may be due. Fugitives from
    service or
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Land and naval forces. Congress shall make rules for the government and
    regulation of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 14

    Law and fact, with exceptions and under regulations to be made by
    Congress. The Supreme Court shall have appellate jurisdiction as to
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Law of the land. The Constitution, the laws made in pursuance thereof,
    and treaties of the United States, shall be the supreme
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    The judges in every State shall be bound thereby
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Law of nations. Congress shall provide for punishing offenses against
    the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    Laws. Congress shall provide for calling forth the militia to suppress
    insurrection, repel invasion, and to execute the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    Laws and treaties of the United States. The judicial power shall extend
    to all cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution, or the
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Laws necessary to carry into execution the powers vested in the
    government, or in any department or officer of the United States.
    Congress shall make all
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

    Legal tender in payment of debts. No State shall make anything but gold
    and silver coin a
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Legislation in all cases over such district as may become the seat of
    government. Congress shall exercise exclusive
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Over all places purchased for the erection of forts, magazines,
    arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings. Congress shall
    exercise exclusive
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Legislation. Congress shall have power to make all laws necessary and
    proper for carrying into execution all the powers vested by the
    Constitution in the Government of the United States or in any department
    or officer thereof
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

    Congress shall have power to enforce the thirteenth amendment,
    prohibiting slavery, by appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 13  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the fourteenth amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 5  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the fifteenth amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress and the several States shall have concurrent power to enforce
    the eighteenth amendment by appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 18  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the nineteenth amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the twenty-third amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the twenty-fourth amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to enforce the twenty-sixth amendment by
    appropriate. [Amendments]
      ART. 26  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in Congress. All
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Legislature, or the Executive (when the legislature cannot be convened).
    The United States shall protect each State against invasion and domestic
    violence, on the application of the
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Legislatures of two-thirds of the States, Congress shall call a
    convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution. On the
    application of the
      ART. 5  SEC.  CL. _

    Letters of marque and reprisal. Congress shall have power to grant
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    No State shall grant
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Liberty to ourselves and our posterity, &c. To secure the blessings of.
    [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Life, liberty, and property without due process of law. No person shall
    be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor
    be deprived of. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    No State shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
    United States, nor deprive any person of. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Life or limb for the same offense. No person shall be twice put in
    jeopardy of. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Loss or emancipation of any slave shall be held illegal and void. Claims
    for the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

                               M

    Magazines, arsenals, dock-yards, and other needful buildings. Congress
    shall have exclusive authority over all places purchased for the
    erection of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Majority of each House shall constitute a quorum to do business. A
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    But a smaller number may adjourn from day to day and may be authorized
    to compel the attendance of absent members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a choice. When the
    choice of a President shall devolve on the House of Representatives, a
    quorum shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the
    States; but a. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    When the choice of a Vice President shall devolve on the Senate, a
    quorum shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators, and
    a majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Maritime jurisdiction. The judicial power shall extend to all cases of
    admiralty and
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Marque and reprisal. Congress shall have power to grant letters of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    No State shall grant any letters of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Maryland entitled to six Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Massachusetts entitled to eight Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Measures. Congress shall fix the standard of weights and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    Meeting of Congress. The Congress shall assemble at least once in every
    year, and such meeting shall be on the first Monday in December, unless
    they shall by law appoint a different day
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 2

    Meeting of Electors. The electors shall meet in their respective States
    and vote by ballot for President and Vice President, one of whom, at
    least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same State with themselves.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    District of Columbia, electors for President and Vice President
    appointed by District. [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Members of Congress and of State legislatures shall be bound by oath or
    affirmation to support the Constitution
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Militia to execute the laws, suppress insurrections, and repel
    invasions. Congress shall provide for calling forth the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    Congress shall provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 16

    Congress shall provide for governing such part of them as may be
    employed by the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 16

    Reserving to the States the appointment of the officers and the right to
    train the militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 16

    A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free
    State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be
    infringed. [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Misdemeanors. The President, Vice President, and all civil officers
    shall be removed on impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery,
    or other high crimes and
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Money on the credit of the United States. Congress shall have power to
    borrow
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 2

    Regulate the value thereof and of foreign coin. Congress shall have
    power to coin
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    Shall be drawn from the Treasury but in consequence of appropriations
    made by law. No
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    Shall be published from time to time. A regular statement and account of
    receipts and expenditures of public
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    For raising and supporting armies. No appropriation of money shall be
    for a longer term than two years
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 12

                               N

    Nations. Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    Congress shall provide for punishing offenses against the law of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    Natural-born citizen, or a citizen at the adoption of the Constitution,
    shall be eligible to the office of President. No person except a
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Naturalization. Congress shall have power to establish a uniform rule of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 4

    Naturalized in the United States, and subject to their jurisdiction,
    shall be citizens of the United States and of the States in which they
    reside. All persons born, or. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Naval forces. Congress shall make rules and regulations for the
    government and regulation of the land and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 14

    Navy. Congress shall have power to provide and maintain a
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 13

    New Hampshire entitled to three Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    New Jersey entitled to four Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    New States may be admitted by Congress into this Union
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    But no new State shall be formed within the jurisdiction of another
    State without the consent of Congress
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Nor shall any State be formed by the junction of two or more States or
    parts of States, without the consent of the legislatures and of Congress
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    New York entitled to six Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Nobility shall be granted by the United States. No title of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    No State shall grant any title of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Nominations for office by the President. The President shall nominate,
    and, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, shall appoint
    ambassadors and other public officers
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    He may grant commissions to fill vacancies that happen in the recess of
    the Senate, which shall expire at the end of their next session
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    The President shall nominate a successor to the Vice President whenever
    a vacancy in office occurs [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 2  CL. _

    North Carolina entitled to five Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Number of electors for President and Vice President in each State shall
    be equal to the number of Senators and Representatives to which such
    State may be entitled in Congress.
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

                               O

    Oath of office of the President of the United States. Form of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 8

    Oath or affirmation. No warrants shall be issued but upon probable cause
    supported by. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Oath or affirmation to support the Constitution. Senators and
    Representatives, members of State legislatures, executive and judicial
    officers of the United States and of the several States, shall be bound
    by
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    But no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification for
    office
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    The Senators when sitting to try impeachment shall be on
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Objections. If he shall not approve it, the President shall return the
    bill to the House in which it originated with his
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Obligation of contracts. No State shall pass any ex post facto law, or
    law impairing the
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Obligations incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the
    United States to be held illegal and void. All debts or. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Offense. No person shall be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb for
    the same. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Offenses against the law of nations. Congress shall provide for
    punishing
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    Against the United States, except in cases of impeachment. The President
    may grant reprieves or pardons for
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Office under the United States. No person shall be a member of either
    House while holding any civil
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No Senator or Representative shall be appointed to any office under the
    United States which shall have been created, or its emoluments
    increased, during the term for which he is elected
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    Or title of any kind from any king, prince, or foreign State, without
    the consent of Congress. No person holding any office under the United
    States shall accept of any present, emolument
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    Office of President, in case of his removal, death, resignation, or
    inability, shall devolve on the Vice President. The powers and duties of
    the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    During the term of four years. The President and Vice President shall
    hold
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    Of trust or profit under the United States shall be an elector for
    President and Vice President. No person holding an
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    Civil or military under the United States, or any State, who had taken
    an oath as a legislative, executive, or judicial officer of the United
    States, or of any State, and afterward engaged in insurrection or
    rebellion. No person shall be a Senator, Representative or Presidential
    elector, or hold any. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Officers in the President alone, in the courts of law, or in the heads
    of Departments. Congress may vest the appointment of inferior
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Of the United States shall be removed on impeachment for and conviction
    of treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdeameanors. The
    President, Vice President, and all civil
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    The House of Representatives shall choose their Speaker and other
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    The Senate, in the absence of the Vice President, shall choose a
    President pro tempore, and also their other
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    Offices becoming vacant in the recess of the Senate may be filled by the
    President, the commissions to expire at the end of the next session
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    One-fifth of the members present, be entered on the journal of each
    House. The yeas and nays shall, at the desire of
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

    Opinion of the principal officers in each of the Executive Departments
    on any subject relating to their duties. The President may require the
    written
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Order, resolution, or vote (except on a question of adjournment)
    requiring the concurrence of the two Houses, shall be presented to the
    President. Every
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 3

    Original jurisdiction, in all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
    ministers, and consuls, and in which a State may be a party. The Supreme
    Court shall have
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Overt act, or on confession in open court. Conviction of treason shall
    be on the testimony of two witnesses to the
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

                               P

    Pardons, except in cases of impeachment. The President may grant
    reprieves and
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Patent rights to inventors. Congress may pass laws for securing
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Peace. Members of Congress shall not be privileged from arrest for
    treason, felony, and breach of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No State shall, without the consent of Congress, keep troops or ships of
    war in time of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    No soldier shall be quartered in any house without the consent of the
    owner in time of. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    Pennsylvania entitled to eight Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Pensions and bounties shall not be questioned. The validity of the
    public debt incurred in suppressing insurrection and rebellion against
    the United States, including the debt for. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    People, peaceably to assemble and petition for redress of grievances,
    shall not be abridged by Congress. The right of the. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    To keep and bear arms shall not be infringed. A well-regulated militia
    being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    To be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against
    unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated. The right of
    the. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    People. The enumeration of certain rights in the Constitution shall not
    be held to deny or disparage others retained by the. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Powers not delegated to the United States, nor prohibited to the States,
    are reserved to the States or to the. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Perfect Union, &c. To establish a more. [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Persons, houses, papers, and effects against unreasonable searches and
    seizures. The people shall be secure in their. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Persons, as any State may think proper to admit, shall not be
    prohibited prior to 1808. The migration or importation of such
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 1

    But a tax or duty of ten dollars shall be imposed on the importation of
    each of such
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 1

    Petition for the redress of grievances. Congress shall make no law
    abridging the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Piracies and felonies committed on the high seas. Congress shall define
    and punish
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 10

    Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting. Neither House
    during the session shall, without the consent of the other, adjourn for
    more than three days, nor to any other
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    Places of choosing Senators. Congress may by law make or alter
    regulations for the election of Senators and Representatives, except as
    to the
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Poll tax. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not
    be denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of
    failure to pay. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Ports of one State over those of another. Preference shall not be given
    by any regulation of commerce or revenue to the
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Vessels clearing from the ports of one State shall not pay duties in
    another
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Post offices and post roads. Congress shall establish
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 7

    Powers herein granted shall be vested in Congress. All legislative
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Powers vested by the Constitution in the Government or in any Department
    or officer of the United States. Congress shall make all laws necessary
    to carry into execution the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 18

    Powers and duties of the office shall devolve on the Vice President, on
    the removal, death, resignation, or inability of the President. The
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

                               [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Powers not delegated to the United States nor prohibited to the States
    are reserved to the States and to the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    The enumeration of certain rights in this Constitution shall not be held
    to deny or disparage others retained by the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Preference, by any regulation of commerce or revenue, shall not be given
    to the ports of one State over those of another
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Prejudice any claims of the United States or of any particular State in
    the territory or property of the United States. Nothing in this
    Constitution shall
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Present, emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever from any king,
    prince, or foreign State. No person holding any office under the United
    States shall, without the consent of Congress, accept any
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    Presentment or indictment of a grand jury, except in cases arising in
    the land or naval forces, or in the militia when in actual service. No
    person shall be held to answer for a capital or otherwise infamous crime
    unless on a. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    President of the United States. The Senate shall choose a President
    pro tempore when the Vice President shall exercise the office of
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    Additional provision for succession through act of Congress.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Succession in case of death. [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Succession in case of failure to be chosen or qualified. [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Term of office, beginning and ending. [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The Chief Justice shall preside upon the trial of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Shall approve and sign all bills passed by Congress before they shall
    become laws
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Shall return to the House in which it originated, with his objections,
    any bill which he shall not approve
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    If not returned within ten days (Sundays excepted), it shall become a
    law, unless Congress shall adjourn before the expiration of that time
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Every order, resolution, or vote which requires the concurrence of both
    Houses, except on a question of adjournment, shall be presented to the
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 3

    If disapproved by him, shall be returned and proceeded on as in the case
    of a bill
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 3

    The executive power shall be vested in a
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    He shall hold his office during the term of four years
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    In case of the removal of the President from office, or of his death,
    resignation, or inability to discharge the duties of his office, the
    Vice President shall perform the duties of
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Congress may declare, by law, in the case of the removal, death,
    resignation, or inability of the President, what officer shall act as
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    The President shall receive a compensation which shall not be increased
    nor diminished during his term, nor shall he receive any other emolument
    from the United States
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 7

    Before he enters upon the execution of his office he shall take an oath
    of office
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 8

    Shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy and of the militia of
    the States when called into actual service
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    He may require the opinion, in writing, of the principal officer in each
    of the Executive Departments
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    He may grant reprieves or pardons for offenses, except in cases of
    impeachment
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    He may make treaties by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
    two-thirds of the Senators present concurring
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    He may appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate,
    ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme
    Court, and all other officers whose appointments may be authorized by
    law and not herein provided for
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Congress may vest the appointment of inferior officers in the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    He may fill up all vacancies that may happen in the recess of the Senate
    by commissions which shall expire at the end of their next session
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    He shall give information to Congress of the state of the Union, and
    recommend measures
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    On extraordinary occasions he may convene both Houses or either
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    In case of disagreement between the two Houses as to the time of
    adjournment, he may adjourn them to such time as he may think proper
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    He shall receive ambassadors and other public ministers
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    He shall take care that the laws be faithfully executed
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    He shall commission all the officers of the United States
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    On impeachment for, and conviction of, treason, bribery, or other high
    crimes and misdemeanors, shall be removed from office. The
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    No person except a natural-born citizen, or a citizen of the United
    States at the adoption of the Constitution, shall be eligible to the
    office of
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    No person shall be elected to office more than twice. [Amendments]
      ART. 22  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person who shall not have attained the age of thirty-five years and
    been fourteen years a resident of the United States shall be eligible to
    the office of
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Congress to decide the issue of the President's ability to discharge the
    powers and duties of his office [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Declaration of his inability to discharge the powers and duties of his
    office [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Nomination of successor to the Vice President whenever a vacancy in the
    office of the Vice President occurs [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Succession of Vice President to office in case of death, resignation,
    removal, or inability of President to discharge the powers and duties of
    his office [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    President and Vice President. Manner of choosing. Each State by its
    legislature, shall appoint a number of electors equal to the whole
    number of Senators and Representatives to which the State may be
    entitled in the Congress
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    No Senator or Representative or person holding an office of trust or
    profit under the United States shall be an elector
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    Congress may determine the time of choosing the electors and the day on
    which they shall give their votes, which day shall be the same
    throughout the United States
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 4

    The electors shall meet in their respective States and vote by ballot
    for President and Vice President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an
    inhabitant of the same State with themselves. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    They shall name in distinct ballots the person voted for as President
    and the person voted for as Vice President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    They shall make distinct lists of the persons voted for as President and
    as Vice President, which they shall sign and certify and transmit sealed
    to the President of the Senate at the seat of government. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and
    House of Representatives, open all the certificates, and the votes shall
    then be counted. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The person having the greatest number of votes shall be the President,
    if such number be a majority of the whole number of electors appointed.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    If no person have such majority, then from the persons having the
    highest numbers, not exceeding three, on the list of those voted for as
    President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by
    ballot, the President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    In choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by States, the
    representation from each State having one vote. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    A quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-
    thirds of the States, and a majority of all the States shall be
    necessary to a choice. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    But if no choice shall be made before the 4th of March next following,
    then the Vice President shall act as President, as in the case of the
    death or disability of the President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The District of Columbia shall appoint, in such manner as the Congress
    may direct, a number of electors equal to the whole number of Senators
    and Representatives to which the District would be entitled if a State.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 23  SEC. 1  CL. _

    President of the Senate, but shall have no vote unless the Senate be
    equally divided. The Vice President shall be
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    President pro tempore. In the absence of the Vice President the Senate
    shall choose a
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    When the Vice President shall exercise the office of President of the
    United States, the Senate shall choose a
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    President to transmit his declaration of inability to discharge the
    powers and duties of his office to [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Vice President and a majority of the principal officers of the executive
    departments to transmit their declaration of the President's inability
    to discharge the powers and duties of his office to [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Press. Congress shall pass no law abridging the freedom of speech or of
    the. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Previous condition of servitude. The right of citizens of the United
    States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States, or
    by any State, on account of race, color, or. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Primary elections. The right of citizens of the United States to vote in
    shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State by
    reason of failure to pay any poll tax or other tax. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Private property shall not be taken for public use without just
    compensation. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Privilege. Senators and Representatives shall, in all cases except
    treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest
    during their attendance at the session of their respective Houses, and
    in going to and returning from the same
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    They shall not be questioned for any speech or debate in either House in
    any other place
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Privileges and immunities of citizens of the United States. The
    citizens of each State shall be entitled to all the privileges and
    immunities of the citizens of the several States
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    No soldier shall be quartered in any house without the consent of the
    owner in time of peace. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person shall be twice put in jeopardy of life and limb for the same
    offense. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
    jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State
    in which they reside. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the
    privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    No State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property without
    due process of law. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of
    its laws. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Prizes captured on land or water. Congress shall make rules concerning
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    Probable cause. The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
    houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures,
    shall not be violated. And no warrant shall issue for such but upon.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Process of law. No person shall be compelled in any criminal case to be
    a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or
    property, without due. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    No State shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
    due. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Process for obtaining witnesses in his favor. In all criminal
    prosecutions the accused shall have. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Progress of science and useful arts. Congress shall have power to
    promote the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Property of the United States. Congress may dispose of and make all
    needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Property, without due process of law. No person shall be compelled in
    any criminal case to be a witness against himself; nor shall he be
    deprived of his life, liberty, or [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    No State shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the
    United States; nor deprive any person of his life, liberty, or.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Prosecutions. The accused shall have a speedy and public trial in all
    criminal. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be tried by a jury in the State or district where the crime was
    committed. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall be confronted with the witnesses against him. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    He shall have counsel for his defense. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Protection of the laws. No State shall deny to any person within its
    jurisdiction the equal. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Public debt of the United States incurred in suppressing insurrection or
    rebellion shall not be questioned. The validity of the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Public safety may require it. The writ of habeas corpus shall not be
    suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 2

    Public trial by jury. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
    have a speedy and. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Public use. Private property shall not be taken for, without just
    compensation. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Punishment according to law. Judgment in cases of impeachment shall not
    extend further than to removal from, and disqualification for, office;
    but the party convicted shall nevertheless be liable and subject to
    indictment, trial, judgment, and
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    Punishments inflicted. Excessive bail shall not be required nor
    excessive fines imposed nor cruel and unusual. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

                               Q

    Qualification for office. No religious test shall ever be required as a
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Qualifications of electors of members of the House of Representatives
    shall be the same as electors for the most numerous branch of the State
    legislature
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Qualifications of electors of Senators shall be the same as electors of
    the most numerous branch of the State legislature. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Qualifications of members of the House of Representatives. They shall
    be twenty-five years of age, seven years a citizen of the United States,
    and an inhabitant of the State in which chosen
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Of Senators. They shall be thirty years of age, nine years a citizen of
    the United States, and an inhabitant of the State in which chosen
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 3

    Of its own members. Each House shall be the judge of the election,
    returns, and
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Of the President. No person except a natural-born citizen, or a citizen
    of the United States at the time of the adoption of the Constitution,
    shall be eligible to the office of President
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Neither shall any person be eligible to the office of President who
    shall not have attained the age of thirty-five years and been fourteen
    years a resident within the United States
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 5

    Of the Vice President. No person constitutionally ineligible to the
    office of President shall be eligible to that of Vice President.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Quartered in any house without the consent of the owner in time of
    peace. No soldier shall be. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    Quorum to do business. A majority of each House shall constitute a
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    But a smaller number than a quorum may adjourn from day to day and may
    be authorized to compel the attendance of absent members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    Of the House of Representatives for choosing a President shall consist
    of a member or members from two-thirds of the States, and a majority of
    all the States shall be necessary to a choice. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Quorum to elect a Vice President by the Senate. Two-thirds of the whole
    number of Senators shall be a. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    A majority of the whole number shall be necessary to a choice.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _


                               R

    Race, color, or previous condition of servitude. The right of citizens
    of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the
    United States or by any State on account of. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Ratification of amendments to the Constitution shall be by the
    legislatures of three-fourths of the several States or by conventions in
    three-fourths of the States, accordingly as Congress may propose
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Ratification of the conventions of nine States shall be sufficient to
    establish the Constitution between the States so ratifying the same
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Ratio or representation until the first enumeration under the
    Constitution shall be made not to exceed one for every thirty thousand
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Ratio of representation shall be apportioned among the several States
    according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of
    persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    But when the right to vote for Presidential electors or members of
    Congress, or the legislative, executive, and judicial officers of the
    State, except for engaging in rebellion or other crime, shall be denied
    or abridged by a State, the basis of representation shall be reduced
    therein in the proportion of such denial or abridgment of the right to
    vote. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Rebellion against the United States. Persons who, while holding certain
    Federal and State offices, took an oath to support the Constitution,
    afterward engaged in insurrection or rebellion, disabled from holding
    office under the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of each House remove such
    disability. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Debts incurred for pensions and bounties for services in suppressing the
    rebellion shall not be questioned. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    All debts and obligations incurred in aid of the rebellion, and all
    claims for the loss or emancipation of slaves, declared and held to be
    illegal and void. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Rebellion or invasion. The writ of habeas corpus shall not be
    suspended except when the public safety may require it in cases of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 2

    Receipts and expenditures of all public money shall be published from
    time to time. A regular statement of
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    Recess of the Senate. The President may grant commissions, which shall
    expire at the end of the next session, to fill vacancies that may happen
    during the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Reconsideration of a bill returned by the President with his objections.
    Proceedings to be had upon the
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Records, and judicial proceedings of every other State. Full faith and
    credit shall be given in each State to the acts
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Congress shall prescribe the manner of proving such acts, records, and
    proceedings
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Redress of grievances. Congress shall make no law abridging the right of
    the people peaceably to assemble and to petition for the. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Regulations, except as to the places of choosing Senators. The time,
    places, and manner of holding elections for Senators and Representatives
    shall be prescribed by the legislatures of the States, but Congress may
    at any time by law make or alter such
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Regulations of commerce or revenue. Preference to the ports of one State
    over those of another shall not be given by any
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. Congress shall make
    no law respecting the establishment of. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Religious test shall ever be required as a qualification for any office
    or public trust under the United States. No
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Removal of the President from office - The same shall devolve on the
      Vice President. In case of the ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6 [Amendments] ART.
      25  SEC. _  CL. _

    The Vice President shall succeed to the office of the President. In case
    of the death, resignation, inability, or [Amendments] ART. 25  SEC. _
    CL. _

    Representation. No State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its
    equal suffrage in the Senate
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Representation and direct taxation, how apportioned among the several
    States
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Representation until the first enumeration under the Constitution not to
    exceed one for every thirty thousand. The ratio of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Representation in any State. The executive thereof shall issue writs of
    election to fill vacancies in the
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    Representation among the several States shall be according to their
    respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State,
    excluding Indians not taxed. The ratio of. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    But where the right to vote in certain Federal and State elections is
    abridged for any cause other than rebellion or other crime, the basis of
    representation shall be reduced. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Representatives. Congress shall consist of a Senate and House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Qualifications of electors of members of the House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    No person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained the age
    of twenty-five years, been seven years a citizen of the United States,
    and an inhabitant of the State in which he shall be chosen
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    And direct taxes, how apportioned among the several States
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Executives of the States shall issue writs of election to fill vacancies
    in the House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    Shall choose their Speaker and other officers. The House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    Shall have the sole power of impeachment. The House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    The times, places, and manner of choosing Representatives shall be
    prescribed by the legislatures of the States
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    But Congress may make by law at any time or alter such regulations
    except as to the places of choosing Senators
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    And Senators shall receive a compensation, to be ascertained by law
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Shall in all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be
    privileged from arrest during attendance at the session of the House,
    and in going to and returning from the same
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Shall not be questioned in any other place for any speech or debate.
    Members of the House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No member shall be appointed during his term to any civil office which
    shall have been created, or the emoluments of which shall have been
    increased, during such term
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person holding any office under the United States shall, while
    holding such office, be a member of the House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    All bills for raising revenue shall originate in the House of
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    No Senator or Representative shall be an elector for President or Vice
    President
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
    Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives
    shall have intervened. [Amendments]
      ART. 27  SEC. _  CL. _

    Representatives shall be bound by an oath or affirmation to support the
    Constitution of the United States. The Senators and
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Representatives among the several States. Provisions relative to the
    apportionment of. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Representatives and Senators. Prescribing certain disqualifications for
    office as. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disqualification. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Reprieves and pardons except in cases of impeachment. The President may
    grant
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    Reprisal. Congress shall have power to grant letters of marque and
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    No State shall grant any letters of marque and
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Republican form of government. The United States shall guarantee to
    every State in this Union a
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    And shall protect each of them against invasion; and on the application
    of the legislature, or of the executive (when the legislature cannot be
    convened), against domestic violence
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Reserved rights of the States and the people. The enumeration in the
    Constitution of certain rights shall not be construed to deny or
    disparage others retained by the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    The powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
    prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively,
    or to the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Resignation of the President. The duties and powers of his office shall
    devolve on the Vice President. In case of the death
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    Congress may by law provide for the case of the removal, death
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    The Vice President shall succeed to the office of the President. In case
    of the death, removal, inability, or [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Resolution, or vote (except on a question of adjournment) requiring the
    concurrence of the two Houses shall, before it becomes a law, be
    presented to the President. Every order
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 3

    Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives. All bills for
    raising
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    Revenue. Preference shall not be given to the ports of one State over
    those of another by any regulations of commerce or
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Rhode Island entitled to one Representative in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Right of petition. Congress shall make no law abridging the right of the
    people peaceably to assemble and to petition for the redress of
    grievances. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Right to keep and bear arms. A well-regulated militia being necessary to
    the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear
    arms shall not be infringed. [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Rights in the Constitution shall not be construed to deny or disparage
    others retained by the people. The enumeration of certain. [Amendments]
      ART. 9  SEC. _  CL. _

    Rights not delegated to the United States nor prohibited to the States
    are reserved to the States or to the people. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Rules of its proceedings. Each House may determine the
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property of the
    United States. Congress shall dispose of and make all needful
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Rules of the common law. All suits involving over twenty dollars shall
    be tried by jury according to the. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    No fact tried by a jury shall be re-examined except according to the.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

                               S

    Science and the useful arts by securing to authors and inventors the
    exclusive right to their writings and discoveries. Congress shall have
    power to promote the progress of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

    Searches and seizures shall not be violated. The right of the people to
    be secure against unreasonable. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    And no warrants shall be issued but upon probable cause, on oath or
    affirmation, describing the place to be searched and the persons or
    things to be seized. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Seat of Government. Congress shall exercise exclusive legislation in all
    cases over such district as may become the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 17

    Securities and current coin of the United States. Congress shall provide
    for punishing the counterfeiting of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 6

    Security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear arms
    shall not be infringed. A well-regulated militia being necessary to the.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 2  SEC. _  CL. _

    Senate and House of Representatives. The Congress of the United States
    shall consist of a
      ART. 1  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Senate of the United States. The Senate shall be composed of two
    Senators from each State, chosen by the legislature for six years
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    The Senate shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by
    the people thereof, for six years. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Qualifications of electors of Senators. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 1  CL. _

    If vacancies happen during the recess of the legislature of a State, the
    executive thereof may make temporary appointments until the next meeting
    of the legislature
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    When vacancies happen the executive authority of the State shall issue
    writs of election to fill such vacancies; provided, that the legislature
    of any State may empower the executive thereof to make temporary
    appointment until the people fill the vacancies by election as the
    legislature may direct. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 2  CL. _

    The Vice President shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no
    vote unless the Senate be equally divided
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    The Senate shall choose their other officers, and also a President
    pro tempore in the absence of the Vice President or when he shall
    exercise the office of President
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    The Senate shall have the sole power to try all impeachments. When
    sitting for that purpose they shall be on oath or affirmation
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    When the President of the United States is tried the Chief Justice shall
    preside; and no person shall be convicted without the concurrence of
    two-thirds of the members present
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    It shall be the judge of the elections, returns, and qualifications of
    its own members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    A majority shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller
    number may adjourn from day to day, and may be authorized to compel the
    attendance of absent members
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 1

    It may determine the rules of its proceedings, punish a member for
    disorderly behavior, and with the concurrence of two-thirds expel a
    member
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    It shall keep a journal of its proceedings and from time to time publish
    the same, except such parts as may in their judgment require secrecy
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

    It shall not adjourn for more than three days during a session without
    the consent of the other House
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 4

    It may propose amendments to bills for raising revenue, but such bills
    shall originate in the House of Representatives
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 1

    The Senate shall advise and consent to the ratification of all treaties,
    provided two-thirds of the members present concur
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    It shall advise and consent to the appointment of ambassadors, other
    public ministers and consuls, judges of the Supreme Court, and all other
    officers not herein otherwise provided for
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    It may be convened by the President on extraordinary occasions
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    No State, without its consent, shall be deprived of its equal suffrage
    in the Senate
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Senators. They shall, immediately after assembling, under their first
    election, be divided into three classes, so that the seats of one-third
    shall become vacant at the expiration of every second year
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    No person shall be a Senator who shall not be thirty years of age, nine
    years a citizen of the United States, and an inhabitant when elected of
    the State for which he shall be chosen
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 3

    The times, places, and manner of choosing Senators may be fixed by the
    legislature of a State, but Congress may by law make or alter such
    regulations, except as to the places of choosing
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    If vacancies happen during the recess of the legislature of a State, the
    executive thereof may make temporary appointments until the next meeting
    of the legislature.
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    If vacancies happen the executive authority of the State shall issue
    writs of election to fill such vacancies; provided, that the legislature
    of any State may empower the executive thereof to make temporary
    appointment until the people fill the vacancies by election as the
    legislature may direct. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 2  CL. _

    They shall in all cases, except treason, felony, and breach of the
    peace, be privileged from arrest during their attendance at the session
    of the Senate and in going to and returning from the same
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Senators and Representatives shall receive a compensation to be
    ascertained by law
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Senators and Representatives shall not be questioned for any speech or
    debate in either House in any other place
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    No Senator or Representative shall, during the time for which he was
    elected, be appointed to any civil office under the United States which
    shall have been created, or of which the emoluments shall have been
    increased, during such term
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No person holding any office under the United States shall be a member
    of either House during his continuance in office
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    No Senator or Representative or person holding an office of trust or
    profit under the United States shall be an elector for President and
    Vice President
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    Senators and Representatives shall be bound by an oath or affirmation to
    support the Constitution
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    No person shall be a Senator or Representative who, having, as a Federal
    or State officer, taken an oath to support the Constitution, afterward
    engaged in rebellion against the United States. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    But Congress may, by a vote of two-thirds of each House, remove such
    disability. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    No law, varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and
    Representatives, shall take effect, until an election of Representatives
    shall have intervened. [Amendments]
      ART. 27  SEC. _  CL. _

    Service or labor in one State, escaping into another State, shall be
    delivered up to the party to whom such service or labor may be due.
    Fugitives from
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Servitude, except as a punishment for crime, whereof the party shall
    have been duly convicted, shall exist in the United States or any place
    subject to their jurisdiction. Neither slavery nor involuntary.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 13  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Servitude. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not
    be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State, on account
    of race, color, or previous condition of. [Amendments ]
      ART. 15  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Sex. Right of citizens to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the
    United States or any State on account of. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Ships of war in time of peace, without the consent of Congress. No State
    shall keep troops or
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Silver coin a tender in payment of debts. No State shall make anything
    but gold and
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Slave. Neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any
    debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion, or any
    claim for the loss or emancipation of any. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime,
    whereof the party shall have been duly convicted, shall exist in the
    United States, or any places subject to their jurisdiction. Neither.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 13  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Soldiers shall not be quartered, in time of peace, in any house without
    the consent of the owner. [Amendments]
      ART. 3  SEC. _  CL. _

    South Carolina entitled to five Representatives in the first Congress
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Speaker and other officers. The House of Representatives shall choose
    their
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 5

    Speaker of the House of Representatives. President to transmit his
    declaration of inability to discharge the powers and duties of his
    office to [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Vice President and a majority of the principal officers of the executive
    departments to transmit their declaration of the President's inability
    to discharge the powers and duties of his office to [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Speech or of the press. Congress shall make no law abridging the freedom
    of. [Amendments]
      ART. 1  SEC. _  CL. _

    Speedy and public trial by a jury. In all criminal prosecutions the
    accused shall have a. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Standard of weights and measures. Congress shall fix the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    State of the Union. The President shall, from time to time, give
    Congress information of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. _

    State legislatures, and all executive and judicial officers of the
    United States, shall take an oath to support the Constitution. All
    members of the several
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    States. When vacancies happen in the representation from any State, the
    executive authority shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    When vacancies happen in the representation of any State in the Senate,
    the executive authority shall issue writs of election to fill such
    vacancies. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Congress shall have power to regulate commerce among the several
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 3

    No State shall enter into any treaty, alliance, or confederation
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not grant letters of marque and reprisal
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not coin money
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not emit bills of credit
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in payment of
    debts
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not pass any bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law
    impairing the obligation of contracts
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not grant any title of nobility
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Shall not, without the consent of Congress, lay any duties on imports or
    exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its
    inspection laws
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 2

    Shall not, without the consent of Congress, lay any duty of tonnage,
    keep troops or ships of war in time of peace, enter into any agreement
    or compact with another State or with a foreign power, or engage in war
    unless actually invaded or in such imminent danger as will not admit of
    delay
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Full faith and credit in every other State shall be given to the public
    acts, records, and judicial proceedings of each State
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Congress shall prescribe the manner of proving such acts, records, and
    proceedings
      ART. 4  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and
    immunities of citizens in the several States
      ART. 4  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    New States may be admitted by Congress into this Union
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    But no new State shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of
    another State
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Nor any State formed by the junction of two or more States or parts of
    States, without the consent of the legislatures as well as of Congress
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    No State shall be deprived, without its consent, of its equal suffrage
    in the Senate
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Three-fourths of the legislatures of the States, or conventions of
    three-fourths of the States, as Congress shall prescribe, may ratify
    amendments to the Constitution
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    The United States shall guarantee a republican form of government to
    every State in the Union
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    They shall protect each State against invasion
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    And on application of the legislature, or the executive (when the
    legislature cannot be convened), against domestic violence
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    The ratification by nine States shall be sufficient to establish the
    Constitution between the States so ratifying the same
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    When the choice of President shall devolve on the House of
    Representatives, the vote shall be taken by States. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    But in choosing the President the vote shall be taken by States, the
    representation from each State having one vote. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    A quorum for choice of President shall consist of a member or members
    from two-thirds of the States, and a majority of all the States shall be
    necessary to a choice. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    States or the people. Powers not delegated to the United States, nor
    prohibited to the States, are reserved to the. [Amendments]
      ART. 10  SEC. _  CL. _

    Succession to the offices of the President and Vice President.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Suffrage in the Senate. No State shall be deprived without its consent
    of its equal
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    No denial of right to vote on account of sex. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Suits at common law, where the value in controversy shall exceed $20,
    shall be tried by jury. [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    In law or equity against one of the States, by citizens of another
    State, or by citizens of a foreign State. The judicial power of the
    United States shall not extend to. [Amendments]
      ART. 11  SEC. _  CL. _

    Suppress insurrections and repel invasions. Congress shall provide for
    calling forth the militia to execute the laws
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 15

    Suppression of insurrection or rebellion shall not be questioned. The
    public debt, including the debt for pensions and bounties, incurred in
    the. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Supreme Court. Congress shall have power to constitute tribunals
    inferior to the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    And such inferior courts as Congress may establish. The judicial power
    of the United States shall be vested in one
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The judges of the Supreme Court and inferior courts shall hold their
    offices during good behavior
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The compensation of the judges shall not be diminished during their
    continuance in office
      ART. 3  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Shall have original jurisdiction. In all cases affecting ambassadors,
    other public ministers and consuls, and in which a State may be a party,
    the
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Shall have appellate jurisdiction, both as to law and the fact, with
    such exceptions and regulations as Congress may make. The
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Supreme law of the land. This Constitution, the laws made in pursuance
    thereof, and the treaties of the United States, shall be the
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    The judges in every State shall be bound thereby
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

                               T

    Tax shall be laid unless in proportion to the census or enumeration. No
    capitation or other direct
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 4

    Tax on incomes authorized without apportionment among the several
    States, and without regard to any census or enumeration. [Amendments]
      ART. 16  SEC. _  CL. _

    Tax or duty shall be laid on articles exported from any State. No
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 5

    Tax. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be
    denied or abridged by the United States or any State by reason of
    failure to pay. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Taxes (direct) and Representatives, how apportioned among the several
    States
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Taxes, duties, imposts, and excises. Congress shall have power to lay
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    They shall be uniform throughout the United States
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Temporary appointments until the next meeting of the legislature. If
    vacancies happen in the Senate in the recess of the legislature of a
    State, the executive of the State shall make
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Tender in payment of debts. No State shall make anything but gold and
    silver coin a
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Terms of four years. The President and Vice President shall hold their
    offices for the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    Term of office. President, not more than twice. [Amendments]
      ART. 22  SEC. _  CL. _

    Term for which he is elected. No Senator or Representative shall be
    appointed to any office under the United States which shall have been
    created or its emoluments increased during the
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 2

    Territory or other property of the United States. Congress shall dispose
    of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Test as a qualification for any office or public trust shall ever be
    required. No religious
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 3

    Testimony of two witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in
    open court. No person shall be convicted of treason except on the
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Three-fourths of the legislatures of the States, or conventions in
    three-fourths of the States, as Congress shall prescribe, may ratify
    amendments to the Constitution
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Tie. The Vice President shall have no vote unless the Senate be equally
    divided
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    Times, places, and manner of holding elections for Senators and
    Representatives shall be prescribed in each State by the legislature
    thereof
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    But Congress may at any time by law make or alter such regulations,
    except as to the places of choosing Senators.
      ART. 1  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Title of nobility. The United States shall not grant any
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    No State shall grant any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Title of any kind, from any king, prince, or foreign State, without the
    consent of Congress. No person holding any office under the United
    States shall accept of any
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 8

    Tonnage without the consent of Congress. No State shall lay any duty of
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Tranquility, provide for the common defense, &c. To insure domestic.
    [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Treason shall consist only in levying war against the United States, or
    in adhering to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    No person shall, unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same
    overt act, or on confession in open court, be convicted of
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Congress shall have power to declare the punishment of
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Shall not work corruption of blood. Attainder of
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Shall not work forfeiture, except during the life of the person
    attainted. Attainder of
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors. The President,
    Vice President, and all civil officers shall be removed from office on
    impeachment for and conviction of
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. 1

    Treason, felony, and breach of the peace. Senators and Representatives
    shall be privileged from arrest while attending or while going to or
    returning from the sessions of Congress, except in cases of
      ART. 1  SEC. 6  CL. 1

    Treasury, but in consequence of appropriations made by law. No money
    shall be drawn from the
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 7

    Treaties. The President shall have power, with the advice and consent
    of the Senate, provided two-thirds of the Senators present concur, to
    make
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    The judicial power shall extend to all cases arising under the
    Constitution, laws, and
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 1

    They shall be the supreme law of the land, and the judges in every State
    shall be bound thereby
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. 2

    Treaty, alliance, or confederation. No State shall enter into any
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 1

    Trial, judgment, and punishment according to law. Judgment in cases of
    impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from, and
    disqualification for, office; but the party convicted shall nevertheless
    be liable and subject to indictment
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 7

    Trial by jury. All crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be
    tried by jury
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Such trial shall be held in the State within which the crime shall have
    been committed
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    But when not committed within a State, the trial shall be at such a
    place as Congress may by law have directed
      ART. 3  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have a speedy and public.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Suits at common law, when the amount exceeds $20, shall be by.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 7  SEC. _  CL. _

    Tribunals inferior to the Supreme Court. Congress shall have power to
    constitute
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 9

    Troops or ships of war in time of peace without the consent of Congress.
    No State shall keep
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    Trust or profit under the United States, shall be an elector for
    President and Vice President. No Senator, Representative, or person
    holding any office of
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    Two-thirds of the members present. No person shall be convicted on an
    impeachment without the concurrence of
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Two-thirds, may expel a member. Each House, with the concurrence of
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    Two-thirds. A bill returned by the President with his objections, may be
    repassed by each House by a vote of
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Two-thirds of the Senators present concur. The President shall have
    power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to make
    treaties, provided
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Two-thirds of the legislatures of the several States. Congress shall
    call a convention for proposing amendments to the Constitution on the
    application of
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Two-thirds of both Houses shall deem it necessary. Congress shall
    propose amendments to the Constitution whenever
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Two-thirds of the States. When the choice of a President shall devolve
    on the House of Representatives, a quorum shall consist of a member or
    members from. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Two-thirds of the whole number of Senators. A quorum of the Senate, when
    choosing a Vice President, shall consist of. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Two-thirds, may remove the disabilities imposed by the third section of
    the fourteenth amendment. Congress, by a vote of. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

    Two years. Appropriations for raising and supporting armies shall not be
    for a longer term than
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 12

                               U

    Union. To establish a more perfect. [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    The President shall, from time to time, give to Congress information of
    the state of the
      ART. 2  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    New States may be admitted by Congress into this
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    But no new States shall be formed or erected within the jurisdiction of
    another
      ART. 4  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Unreasonable searches and seizures. The people shall be secured in
    their persons, houses, papers, and effects against. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    And no warrants shall be issued but upon probable cause, supported by
    oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
    searched, and the persons or things to be seized. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Unusual punishments inflicted. Excessive bail shall not be required, nor
    excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and. [Amendments]
      ART. 8  SEC. _  CL. _

    Use without just compensation. Private property shall not be taken for
    public. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Useful arts, by securing for limited times to authors and inventors the
    exclusive right to their writings and inventions. Congress shall have
    power to promote the progress of science and the
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 8

                               V

    Vacancies happening in the representation of a State. The executive
    thereof shall issue writs of election to fill
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    Vacancies happening in the representation of a State in the Senate. The
    executive thereof shall issue writs of election to fill. [Amendments]
      ART. 17  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Vacancies happening in the Senate in the recess of the legislature of a
    State. How filled
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 2

    Vacancies that happen during the recess of the Senate, by granting
    commissions which shall expire at the end of the next session. The
    President shall have power to fill
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Validity of the public debt incurred in suppressing insurrection against
    the United States, including debt for pensions and bounties, shall not
    be questioned. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Vessels bound to or from the ports of one State, shall not be obliged to
    enter, clear, or pay duties in another State
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 6

    Veto of a bill by the President. Proceedings of the two Houses upon the
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    He shall have no vote unless the Senate be equally divided
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    The Senate shall choose a President pro tempore in the absence of the
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 5

    He shall be chosen for the term of four years
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 1

    The number and the manner of appointing electors for President and
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 2

    In case of the removal, death, resignation, or inability of the
    President, the powers and duties of his office shall devolve on the
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Congress may provide by law for the case of the removal, death,
    resignation, or inability both of the President and
      ART. 2  SEC. 1  CL. 6

    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    On impeachment for and conviction of treason, bribery, and other high
    crimes and misdemeanors, shall be removed from office. The
      ART. 2  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Vice President. The manner of choosing the. The electors shall meet in
    their respective States and vote by ballot for President and Vice
    President, one of whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same
    State with themselves. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    Additional provision for succession through act of Congress.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Nomination by President in case of vacancy in office. [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Term of office, beginning and ending. [Amendments]
      ART. 20  SEC. 1  CL. _

    The electors shall name, in distinct ballots, the person voted for as
    Vice President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    They shall make distinct lists of the persons voted for as Vice
    President, which lists they shall sign and certify, and send sealed to
    the seat of Government, directed to the President of the Senate.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The President of the Senate shall, in the presence of the Senate and
    House of Representatives, open all the certificates, and the votes shall
    be then counted. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    The person having the greatest number of votes shall be Vice President,
    if such number be a majority of the whole number of electors.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    If no person have a majority, then from the two highest numbers on the
    list the Senate shall choose the Vice President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    A quorum for this purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole
    number of senators; and a majority of the whole number shall be
    necessary to a choice. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    But if the House shall make no choice of a President before the 4th of
    March next following, then the Vice President shall act as President, as
    in the case of the death or other constitutional disability of the
    President. [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    No person constitutionally ineligible as President shall be eligible as.
    [Amendments]
      ART. 12  SEC. _  CL. _

    In case of the removal, death, resignation, or inability of the
    President, the powers and duties of his office shall succeed to
    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. _  CL. _

    Nomination by President of successor in event of vacancy in office of
    [Amendments]
      ART. 25  SEC. 2  CL. _

    Violence. The United States shall guarantee to every State a republican
    form of government, and shall protect each State against invasion and
    domestic
      ART. 4  SEC. 4  CL. _

    Virginia entitled to ten Representatives in the first Congress.
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 3

    Vote. Each Senator shall have one
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    The Vice President, unless the Senate be equally divided, shall have no
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 4

    Requiring the concurrence of the two Houses (except upon a question of
    adjournment) shall be presented to the President. Every order,
    resolution, or
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 3

    Shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on
    account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. The right of
    citizens of the United States to. [Amendments]
      ART. 15  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Right of citizens to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United
    States or any State on account of sex. [Amendments]
      ART. 19  SEC. _  CL. _

    Shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State by
    reason of failure to pay any poll tax or other tax. The right of
    citizens of the United States to. [Amendments]
      ART. 24  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Right of citizens who are eighteen years of age or older to vote shall
    not be denied or abridged by the United States or any State, on account
    of age. [Amendments]
      ART. 26  SEC. 1  CL. _

    Vote of two-thirds. Each House may expel a member by a
      ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 2

    A bill vetoed by the President may be repassed in each House by a
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

    No person shall be convicted on an impeachment except by a
      ART. 1  SEC. 3  CL. 6

    Whenever both Houses shall deem it necessary, Congress may propose
    amendments to the Constitution by a
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    The President may make treaties with the advice and consent of the
    Senate, by a
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 2

    Disabilities incurred by participation in insurrection or rebellion, may
    be relieved by Congress by a. [Amendments]
      ART. 14  SEC. 3  CL. _

                               W

    War, grant letters of marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning
    captures on land and water. Congress shall have power to declare
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 11

    For governing the land and naval forces. Congress shall have power to
    make rules and articles of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 14

    No State shall, without the consent of Congress, unless actually
    invaded, or in such imminent danger as will not admit of delay, engage
    in
      ART. 1  SEC. 10  CL. 3

    War against the United States, adhering to their enemies, and giving
    them aid and comfort. Treason shall consist only in levying
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Warrants shall issue but upon probable cause, on oath or affirmation,
    describing the place to be searched, and the person or things to be
    seized. No. [Amendments]
      ART. 4  SEC. _  CL. _

    Weights and measures. Congress shall fix the standard of
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 5

    Welfare and to secure the blessings of liberty, &c. To promote the
    general. [Preamble]
      ART. _  SEC. _  CL. _

    Welfare. Congress shall have power to provide for the common defense and
    general
      ART. 1  SEC. 8  CL. 1

    Witness against himself. No person shall, in a criminal case, be
    compelled to be a. [Amendments]
      ART. 5  SEC. _  CL. _

    Witnesses against him. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall be
    confronted with the. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Witnesses in his favor. In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall
    have compulsory process for obtaining. [Amendments]
      ART. 6  SEC. _  CL. _

    Witnesses to the same overt act, or on confession in open court. No
    person shall be convicted of treason unless on the testimony of two
      ART. 3  SEC. 3  CL. 1

    Writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended unless in case of rebellion
    or invasion the public safety may require it
      ART. 1  SEC. 9  CL. 2

    Writs of election to fill vacancies in the representation of any State.
    The executives of the State shall issue
      ART. 1  SEC. 2  CL. 4

    Written opinion of the principal officer in each of the Executive
    Departments on any subject relating to the duties of his office. The
    President may require the
      ART. 2  SEC. 2  CL. 1

                               Y

    Yeas and nays of the members of either House shall, at the desire of
    one-fifth of those present, be entered on the journals
    ART. 1  SEC. 5  CL. 3

      The votes of both Houses upon the reconsideration of a bill returned
      by the President with his objections shall be determined by
      ART. 1  SEC. 7  CL. 2

-End-