-CITE-
    48 USC TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
              TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS          


-MISC1-
                                                                
    Chap.                                                            Sec.
    1.      Bureau of Insular Affairs [Omitted or Repealed]            1
    2.      Alaska                                                    21
    3.      Hawaii                                                   491
    4.      Puerto Rico                                              731
    5.      Philippine Islands [Omitted, Repealed, or
             Transferred]                                           1001
    6.      Canal Zone [Omitted, Repealed, or Transferred]          1301
    7.      Virgin Islands                                          1391
    8.      Guano Islands                                           1411
    8A.     Guam                                                    1421
    9.      Samoa, Tutuila, Manua, Swains Island, and Trust
             Territory of the Pacific Islands [Transferred]         1431
    10.     Territorial Provisions of a General Nature              1451
    11.     Alien Owners of Land                                    1501
    12.     Virgin Islands                                          1541
    13.     Eastern Samoa                                           1661
    14.     Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands                  1681
    15.     Conveyance of Submerged Lands to Territories            1701
    16.     Delegates to Congress                                   1711
    17.     Northern Mariana Islands                                1801
    18.     Micronesia, Marshall Islands, and Palau                 1901
    19.     Pacific Policy Reports                                  2001

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS                02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS

-HEAD-
                   CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1                                               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 87, 32 Stat. 712,
    provided that the Division of Insular Affairs of the War Department
    should be known as the Bureau of Insular Affairs and prescribed its
    business.
      By Ex. Ord. No. 6726, eff. May 29, 1934, the Division of
    Territories and Island Possessions was established in the
    Department of the Interior, and the functions of the Bureau
    pertaining to the administration of the Government of Puerto Rico,
    together with the personnel, equipment and funds, were transferred
    thereto.
      By Reorg. Plan No. II of 1939, Sec. 4(d), eff. July 1, 1939, 4
    F.R. 2731, 53 Stat. 1433, set out in the Appendix to Title 5,
    Government Organization and Employees. The Bureau of Insular
    Affairs of the War Department and its functions were transferred to
    the Department of the Interior and consolidated with the Division
    of Territories and Island Possessions, to be administered under the
    direction and supervision of the Secretary of the Interior. The
    office of the Chief of the Bureau and offices subordinate thereto
    provided for in section 14 of act June 4, 1920, ch. 227, 41 Stat.
    769, were abolished and all their functions transferred to, and
    were to be exercised by, the Director of the Division of
    Territories and Island Possessions.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 2                                               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 2. Repealed. Aug. 10, 1956, ch. 1041, Sec. 53, 70A Stat. 641.
      Section, acts June 3, 1916, ch. 134, Sec. 14, 39 Stat. 176; June
    4, 1920, ch. 227, subch. I, Sec. 14, 41 Stat. 769, prescribed
    composition of Bureau of Insular Affairs.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 3                                               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 3. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 3. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 640.
      Section, acts June 25, 1906, ch. 3528, 34 Stat. 456; June 4,
    1920, ch. 227, subch. I, Sec. 14, 41 Stat. 769, provided for
    appointment of Chief of Bureau.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 4, 5                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 1 - BUREAU OF INSULAR AFFAIRS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 4, 5. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 4, 5. Repealed. Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029.
      Section 4, acts Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2511, 34 Stat. 1162; Mar. 23,
    1910, ch. 115, 36 Stat. 248, authorized Secretary of War to detail
    an Army officer to act as assistant to Chief of Bureau of Insular
    Affairs of War Department and directed that provisions of law as to
    transfer of officers of line to a department for tours of service
    would apply to vacancy created by this section and to return of
    detailed officer to Army.
      Section 5, act Mar. 23, 1910, ch. 115, 36 Stat. 248, authorized
    Secretary of War to detail one additional Army officer as assistant
    to Chief of Bureau of Insular Affairs under same provisions in
    regard to vacancies and return as provided in section 4 of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
                            CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA                        

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    21 to 50d-1. Omitted or Repealed.                                 
    50e.        Appropriations for benefit of natives; purchase of
                 supplies for resale to natives, cooperatives, and
                 Department employees.                                
    50f.        Disposal of miscellaneous revenues from schools,
                 hospitals, and other Indian Service facilities.      
    50g to 488f. Omitted, Repealed, or Transferred.                   

                            ADMISSION AS STATE                        
      Alaska was admitted into the Union on January 3, 1959, on
    issuance of Proc. No. 3269, eff. Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat.
    c16, set out below, as required by sections 1 and 8(c) of the
    Alaska Statehood Law, Pub. L. 85-508, July 7, 1958, 72 Stat. 339,
    set out below.

                             ALASKA STATEHOOD                         
      Pub. L. 85-508, July 7, 1958, 72 Stat. 339, as amended, provided:
      "[Sec. 1. Declaration; acceptance, ratification, and confirmation
    of Constitution.] That, subject to the provisions of this Act, and
    upon issuance of the proclamation required by section 8(c) of this
    Act, the State of Alaska is hereby declared to be a State of the
    United States of America, is declared admitted into the Union on an
    equal footing with the other States in all respects whatever, and
    the constitution formed pursuant to the provisions of the Act of
    the Territorial Legislature of Alaska entitled, 'An Act to provide
    for the holding of a constitutional convention to prepare a
    constitution for the State of Alaska; to submit the constitution to
    the people for adoption or rejection; to prepare for the admission
    of Alaska as a State; to make an appropriation; and setting an
    effective date', approved March 19, 1955 (Chapter 46, Session Laws
    of Alaska, 1955), and adopted by a vote of the people of Alaska in
    the election held on April 24, 1956, is hereby found to be
    republican in form and in conformity with the Constitution of the
    United States and the principles of the Declaration of
    Independence, and is hereby accepted, ratified, and confirmed.
      "Sec. 2. [Territory.] The State of Alaska shall consist of all
    the territory, together with the territorial waters appurtenant
    thereto, now included in the Territory of Alaska.
      "Sec. 3. [Constitution.] The constitution of the State of Alaska
    shall always be republican in form and shall not be repugnant to
    the Constitution of the United States and the principles of the
    Declaration of Independence.
      "Sec. 4. [Compact with United States; disclaimer of right and
    title to lands or other property; taxation.] As a compact with the
    United States said State and its people do agree and declare that
    they forever disclaim all right and title to any lands or other
    property not granted or confirmed to the State or its political
    subdivisions by or under the authority of this Act, the right or
    title to which is held by the United States or is subject to
    disposition by the United States, and to any lands or other
    property (including fishing rights), the right or title to which
    may be held by any Indians, Eskimos, or Aleuts (hereinafter called
    natives) or is held by the United States in trust for said natives;
    that all such lands or other property (including fishing rights),
    the right or title to which may be held by said natives or is held
    by the United States in trust for said natives, shall be and remain
    under the absolute jurisdiction and control of the United States
    until disposed of under its authority, except to such extent as the
    Congress has prescribed or may hereafter prescribe, and except when
    held by individual natives in fee without restrictions on
    alienation: Provided, That nothing contained in this Act shall
    recognize, deny, enlarge, impair, or otherwise affect any claim
    against the United States, and any such claim shall be governed by
    the laws of the United States applicable thereto; and nothing in
    this Act is intended or shall be construed as a finding,
    interpretation, or construction by the Congress that any law
    applicable thereto authorizes, establishes, recognizes, or confirms
    the validity or invalidity of any such claim, and the determination
    of the applicability or effect of any law to any such claim shall
    be unaffected by anything in this Act: And provided further, That
    no taxes shall be imposed by said State upon any lands or other
    property now owned or hereafter acquired by the United States or
    which, as hereinabove set forth, may belong to said natives, except
    to such extent as the Congress has prescribed or may hereafter
    prescribe, and except when held by individual natives in fee
    without restrictions on alienation. (As amended Pub. L. 86-70, Sec.
    2(a), June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 141.)
      "Sec. 5. [Title to property.] The State of Alaska and its
    political subdivisions, respectively, shall have and retain title
    to all property, real and personal, title to which is in the
    Territory of Alaska or any of the subdivisions. Except as provided
    in section 6 hereof, the United States shall retain title to all
    property, real and personal, to which it has title, including
    public lands.
      "Sec. 6. [Selection from public lands; fish and wildlife
    resources; public school support; mineral leases, permits, leases,
    or contracts; mineral land grants; schools and colleges;
    confirmation of grants; internal improvements; submerged lands.]
    (a) For the purposes of furthering the development of and expansion
    of communities, the State of Alaska is hereby granted and shall be
    entitled to select, within thirty-five years after the date of the
    admission of the State of Alaska into the Union, from lands within
    national forests in Alaska which are vacant and unappropriated at
    the time of their selection not to exceed four hundred thousand
    acres of land, and from the other public lands of the United States
    in Alaska which are vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved at the
    time of their selection not to exceed another four hundred thousand
    acres of land, all of which shall be adjacent to established
    communities or suitable for prospective community centers and
    recreational areas. Such lands shall be selected by the State of
    Alaska with the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture as to
    national forest lands and with the approval of the Secretary of the
    Interior as to other public lands: Provided, That nothing herein
    contained shall affect any valid existing claim, location, or entry
    under the laws of the United States, whether for homestead,
    mineral, right-of-way, or other purpose whatsoever, or shall affect
    the rights of any such owner, claimant, locator, or entryman to the
    full use and enjoyment of the land so occupied: Provided further,
    That for the purposes of this section the term 'public lands of the
    United States in Alaska which are vacant, unappropriated, and
    unreserved' shall include, without limiting the use thereof, the
    retained or reserved interest of the United States in lands which
    have been disposed of with a reservation to the United States of
    all minerals or any specified mineral or minerals.
      "(b) The State of Alaska, in addition to any other grants made in
    this section, is hereby granted and shall be entitled to select,
    within thirty-five years after the admission of Alaska into the
    Union, not to exceed one hundred and two million five hundred and
    fifty thousand acres from the public lands of the United States in
    Alaska which are vacant, unappropriated, and unreserved at the time
    of their selection: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall
    affect any valid existing claim, location, or entry under the laws
    of the United States, whether for homestead, mineral, right-of-way,
    or other purpose whatsoever, or shall affect the rights of any such
    owner, claimant, locator, or entryman to the full use and enjoyment
    of the lands so occupied: And provided further, That no selection
    hereunder shall be made in the area north and west of the line
    described in section 10 without approval of the President or his
    designated representative.
      "(c) Block 32, and the structures and improvements thereon, in
    the city of Juneau are granted to the State of Alaska for any or
    all of the following purposes or a combination thereof: A residence
    for the Governor, a State museum, or park and recreational use.
      "(d) Block 19, and the structures and improvements thereon, and
    the interests of the United States in blocks C and 7, and the
    structures and improvements thereon, in the city of Juneau, are
    hereby granted to the State of Alaska.
      "(e) All real and personal property of the United States situated
    in the Territory of Alaska which is specifically used for the sole
    purpose of conservation and protection of the fisheries and
    wildlife of Alaska, under the provisions of the Alaska game law of
    July 1, 1943 (57 Stat. 301; 48 U.S.C., secs 192-211), as amended,
    and under the provisions of the Alaska commercial fisheries, laws
    of June 26, 1906 (34 Stat. 478; 48 U.S.C., secs. 230-239 and 241-
    242), and June 6, 1924 (43 Stat. 465; 48 U.S.C., secs. 221-228),
    as supplemented and amended, shall be transferred and conveyed to
    the State of Alaska by the appropriate Federal agency: Provided,
    That the administration and management of the fish and wildlife
    resources of Alaska shall be retained by the Federal Government
    under existing laws until the first day of the first calendar year
    following the expiration of ninety calendar days after the
    Secretary of the Interior certifies to the Congress that the Alaska
    State Legislature has made adequate provision for the
    administration, management, and conservation of said resources in
    the broad national interest: Provided, That such transfer shall not
    include lands withdrawn or otherwise set apart as refuges or
    reservations for the protection of wildlife nor facilities utilized
    in connection therewith, or in connection with general research
    activities relating to fisheries or wildlife. Sums of money that
    are available for apportionment or which the Secretary of the
    Interior shall have apportioned as of the date the State of Alaska
    shall be deemed to be admitted into the Union, for wildlife
    restoration in the Territory of Alaska, pursuant to section 8(a) of
    the Act of September 2, 1937, as amended (16 U.S.C., sec. 669g-1),
    and for fish restoration and management in the Territory of Alaska,
    pursuant to section 12 of the Act of August 9, 1950 (16 U.S.C.,
    sec. 777k), shall continue to be available for the period, and
    under the terms and conditions in effect at the time, the
    apportionments are made. Commencing with the year during which
    Alaska is admitted into the Union, the Secretary of the Treasury,
    at the close of each fiscal year, shall pay to the State of Alaska
    70 per centum of the net proceeds, as determined by the Secretary
    of the Interior, derived during such fiscal year from all sales of
    sealskins or sea otter skins made in accordance with the provisions
    of the Fur Seal Act of 1966 [16 U.S.C. 1151 et seq.]. In arriving
    at the net proceeds, there shall be deducted from the receipts from
    all sales all costs to the United States in carrying out the
    provisions of the Fur Seal Act of 1966, including, but not limited
    to, the costs of handling and dressing the skins, the costs of
    making the sales, and all expenses incurred in the administration
    of the Pribilof Islands, and the payments made to any municipal
    corporation established pursuant to section 206 of the Fur Seal Act
    of 1966 [16 U.S.C. 1166] and to the civil service retirement and
    disability fund pursuant to section 208 of the Fur Seal Act of 1966
    [16 U.S.C. 1168]. In administering the Pribilof Islands fund
    established by section 407 of the Fur Seal Act of 1966 [16 U.S.C.
    1187], the Secretary shall consult with the State of Alaska
    annually. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the
    rights of the United States under the provisions of the Fur Seal
    Act of 1966 and the Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1937 (16 U.S.C.
    772-772i).
      "(f) Five per centum of the proceeds of sale of public lands
    lying within said State which shall be sold by the United States
    subsequent to the admission of said State into the Union, after
    deducting all the expenses incident to such sales, shall be paid to
    said State to be used for the support of the public schools within
    said State.
      "(g) Except as provided in subsection (a), all lands granted in
    quantity to and authorized to be selected by the State of Alaska by
    this Act shall be selected in such manner as the laws of the State
    may provide, and in conformity with such regulations as the
    Secretary of the Interior may prescribe. All selections shall be
    made in reasonably compact tracts, taking into account the
    situation and potential uses of the lands involved, and each tract
    selected shall contain at least five thousand seven hundred and
    sixty acres unless isolated from other tracts open to selection or,
    in the case of selections under subsec. (a) of this section, one
    hundred and sixty acres. The authority to make selections shall
    never be alienated or bargained away, in whole or in part, by the
    State. Upon the revocation of any order of withdrawal in Alaska,
    the order of revocation shall provide for a period of not less than
    ninety days before the date on which it otherwise becomes
    effective, if subsequent to the admission of Alaska into the Union,
    during which period the State of Alaska shall have a preferred
    right of selection, subject to the requirements of this Act, except
    as against prior existing valid rights or as against equitable
    claims subject to allowance and confirmation. Such preferred right
    of selection shall have precedence over the preferred right of
    application created by section 4 of the Act of September 27, 1944
    (58 Stat. 748; 43 U.S.C., sec. 282), as now or hereafter amended,
    but not over other preference rights now conferred by law. Where
    any lands desired by the State are unsurveyed at the time of their
    selection, the Secretary of the Interior shall survey the exterior
    boundaries of the area requested without any interior subdivision
    thereof and shall issue a patent for such selected area in terms of
    the exterior boundary survey; where any lands desired by the State
    are surveyed at the time of their selection, the boundaries of the
    area requested shall conform to the public land subdivisions
    established by the approval of the survey. All lands duly selected
    by the State of Alaska pursuant to this Act shall be patented to
    the State by the Secretary of the Interior. Following the selection
    of lands by the State and the tentative approval of such selection
    by the Secretary of the Interior or his designee, but prior to the
    issuance of final patent, the State is hereby authorized to execute
    conditional leases and to make conditional sales of such selected
    lands. As used in this subsection, the words 'equitable claims
    subject to allowance and confirmation' include, without limitation,
    claims of holders of permits issued by the Department of
    Agriculture on lands eliminated from national forests, whose
    permits have been terminated only because of such elimination and
    who own valuable improvements on such lands. As to all selections
    made by the State after January 1, 1979, pursuant to section 6(b)
    of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in his discretion, may
    waive the minimum tract selection size where he determines that
    such a reduced selection size would be in the national interest and
    would result in a better land ownership pattern.
      "(h) Any lease, permit, license, or contract issued under the
    Mineral Leasing Act of February 25, 1920 (41 Stat. 437; 30 U.S.C.
    181 and the following), as amended, or under the Alaska Coal
    Leasing Act of October 20, 1914 (38 Stat. 741; 30 U.S.C.(!1) 432
    and the following), as amended, shall have the effect of
    withdrawing the lands subject thereto from selection by the State
    of Alaska under this Act, unless an application to select such
    lands is filed with the Secretary of the Interior within a period
    of ten years after the date of the admission of Alaska into the
    Union. Such selections shall be made only from lands that are
    otherwise open to selection under this Act. When all of the lands
    subject to a lease, permit, license, or contract are selected, the
    patent for the lands so selected shall vest in the State of Alaska
    all the right, title, and interest of the United States in and to
    that lease, permit, license, or contract that remains outstanding
    on the effective date of the patent, including the right to all the
    rentals, royalties, and other payments accruing after that date
    under that lease, permit, license, or contract, and including any
    authority that may have been retained by the United States to
    modify the terms and conditions of that lease, permit, license, or
    contract: Provided, That nothing herein contained shall affect the
    continued validity of any such lease, permit, license, or contract
    or any rights arising thereunder. Where only a portion of the lands
    subject to a lease, permit, license, or contract are selected,
    there shall be reserved to the United States the mineral or
    minerals subject to that lease, permit, license, or contract,
    together with such further rights as may be necessary to the full
    and complete enjoyment of all rights, privileges, and benefits
    under or with respect to that lease, permit, license, or contract;
    upon the termination of the lease, permit, license, or contract,
    title to the minerals so reserved to the United States shall pass
    to the State of Alaska.

      "(i) All grants made or confirmed under this Act shall include
    mineral deposits. The grants of mineral lands to the State of
    Alaska under subsections (a) and (b) of this section are made upon
    the express condition that all sales, grants, deeds, or patents for
    any of the mineral lands so granted shall be subject to and contain
    a reservation to the State of all of the minerals in the lands so
    sold, granted, deeded, or patented, together with the right to
    prospect for, mine, and remove the same. Mineral deposits in such
    lands shall be subject to lease by the State as the State
    legislature may direct: Provided, That any lands or minerals
    hereafter disposed of contrary to the provisions of this section
    shall be forfeited to the United States by appropriate proceedings
    instituted by the Attorney General for that purpose in the United
    States District Court for the District of Alaska.
      "(j) The schools and colleges provided for in this Act shall
    forever remain under the exclusive control of the State, or its
    governmental subdivisions, and no part of the proceeds arising from
    the sale or disposal of any lands granted herein for educational
    purposes shall be used for the support of any sectarian or
    denominational school, college, or university.
      "(k) Grants previously made to the Territory of Alaska are hereby
    confirmed and transferred to the State of Alaska upon its
    admission. Effective upon the admission of the State of Alaska into
    the Union, section 1 of the Act of March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1214; 48
    U.S.C., sec. 353), as amended, and the last sentence of section 35
    of the Act of February 25, 1920 (41 Stat. 450; 30 U.S.C., sec.
    191), as amended, are repealed and all lands therein reserved under
    the provisions of section 1 as of the date of this Act [July 7,
    1958] shall, upon the admission of said State into the Union, be
    granted to said State for the purposes for which they were
    reserved; but such repeal shall not affect any outstanding lease,
    permit, license, or contract issued under said section 1, as
    amended, or any rights or powers with respect to such lease,
    permit, license, or contract, and shall not affect the disposition
    of the proceeds or income derived prior to such repeal from any
    lands reserved under said section 1, as amended, or derived
    thereafter from any disposition of the reserved lands or an
    interest therein made prior to such repeal.
      "(l) The grants provided for in this Act shall be in lieu of the
    grant of land for purposes of internal improvements made to new
    States by section 8 of the Act of September 4, 1841 (5 Stat. 455),
    and sections 2378 and 2379 of the Revised Statutes (43 U.S.C., sec.
    857), and in lieu of the swampland grant made by the Act of
    September 28, 1850 (9 Stat. 520), and section 2479 of the Revised
    Statutes (43 U.S.C., sec. 982), and in lieu of the grant of thirty
    thousand acres for each Senator and Representative in Congress made
    by the Act of July 2, 1862, as amended (12 Stat. 503; 7 U.S.C.,
    secs. 301-308), which grants are hereby declared not to extend to
    the State of Alaska.
      "(m) The Submerged Lands Act of 1953 (Public Law 31, Eighty-third
    Congress, first session; 67 Stat. 29) shall be applicable to the
    State of Alaska and the said State shall have the same rights as do
    existing States thereunder.
      "(n) The minimum tract selection size is waived with respect to a
    selection made by the State of Alaska under subsection (a) for the
    following selections:


         National Forest                 Area Name               Est.  
         Community Grant                                        Acres  
        Application Number                                             
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
    209                          Yakutat Airport Addition           111
    264                          Bear Valley (Portage)              120
    284                          Hyder-Fish Creek                    61
    310                          Elfin Cove                          37
    384                          Edna Bay Admin Site                 37
    390                          Point Hilda                        29.
    --------------------------------------------------------------------

      "(o)(1) The State of Alaska may elect to convert a selection
    filed under subsection (b) to a selection under subsection (a) by
    notifying the Secretary of the Interior in writing.
      "(2) If the State of Alaska makes an election under paragraph
    (1), the entire selection shall be converted to a selection under
    subsection (a).
      "(3) The Secretary of the Interior shall not convey a total of
    more than 400,000 acres of public domain land selected under
    subsection (a) or converted under paragraph (1) to a public domain
    selection under subsection (a).
      "(4) Conversion of a selection under paragraph (1) shall not
    increase the survey obligation of the United States with respect to
    the land converted.
      "(p) All selection applications of the State of Alaska that are
    on file with the Secretary of the Interior under the public domain
    provisions of subsection (a) on the date of enactment of this
    subsection [Dec. 10, 2004] and any selection applications that are
    converted to a subsection (a) selection under subsection (o)(1) are
    approved as suitable for community or recreational purposes. (As
    amended Pub. L. 86-70, Sec. 2(b), June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 141; Pub.
    L. 86-173, Aug. 18, 1959, 73 Stat. 395; Pub. L. 86-786, Secs. 3, 4,
    Sept. 14, 1960, 74 Stat. 1025; Pub. L. 88-135, Oct. 8, 1963, 77
    Stat. 223; Pub. L. 88-289, Mar. 25, 1964, 78 Stat. 169; Pub. L. 89-
    702, title IV, Sec. 408(b), Nov. 2, 1966, 80 Stat. 1098; Pub. L.
    96-487, title IX, Sec. 906(a), (f)(3), Dec. 2, 1980, 94 Stat. 2437,
    2440; Pub. L. 108-452, title I, Sec. 101, Dec. 10, 2004, 118 Stat.
    3576.)
      "Sec. 7. [Certification by President; proclamation for
    elections.] Upon enactment of this Act, it shall be the duty of the
    President of the United States, not later than July 3, 1958, to
    certify such fact to the Governor of Alaska. Thereupon the
    Governor, on or after July 3, 1958, and not later than August 1,
    1958, shall issue his proclamation for the elections, as
    hereinafter provided, for officers of all elective offices and in
    the manner provided for by the constitution of the proposed State
    of Alaska, but the officers so elected shall in any event include
    two Senators and one Representative in Congress.
      "Sec. 8. [Election of officers; date; propositions; certification
    of voting results; proclamation by President; laws in effect.] (a)
    The proclamation of the Governor of Alaska required by section 7
    shall provide for holding of a primary election and a general
    election on dates to be fixed by the Governor of Alaska: Provided,
    That the general election shall not be held later than December 1,
    1958, and at such elections the officers required to be elected as
    provided in section 7 shall be, and officers for other elective
    offices provided for in the constitution of the proposed State of
    Alaska may be, chosen by the people. Such elections shall be held,
    and the qualifications of voters thereat shall be, as prescribed by
    the constitution of the proposed State of Alaska for the election
    of members of the proposed State legislature. The returns thereof
    shall be made and certified in such manner as the constitution of
    the proposed State of Alaska may prescribe. The Governor of Alaska
    shall certify the results of said elections to the President of the
    United States.
      "(b) At an election designated by proclamation of the Governor of
    Alaska, which may be the general election held pursuant to
    subsection (a) of this section, or a Territorial general election,
    or a special election, there shall be submitted to the electors
    qualified to vote in said election, for adoption or rejection, by
    separate ballot on each, the following propositions:
      " '(1) Shall Alaska immediately be admitted into the Union as a
    State?
      " '(2) The boundaries of the State of Alaska shall be as
    prescribed in the Act of Congress approved __ (date of approval of
    this Act) and all claims of this State to any areas of land or sea
    outside the boundaries so prescribed are hereby irrevocably
    relinquished to the United States.
      " '(3) All provisions of the Act of Congress approved __ (date of
    approval of this Act) reserving rights or powers to the United
    States, as well as those prescribing the terms or conditions of the
    grants of lands or other property therein made to the State of
    Alaska, are consented to fully by said State and its people.'
      "In the event each of the foregoing propositions is adopted at
    said election by a majority of the legal votes cast on said
    submission, the proposed constitution of the proposed State of
    Alaska, ratified by the people at the election held on April 24,
    1956, shall be deemed amended accordingly. In the event any one of
    the foregoing propositions is not adopted at said election by a
    majority of the legal votes cast on said submission, the provisions
    of this Act shall thereupon cease to be effective.
      "The Governor of Alaska is hereby authorized and directed to take
    such action as may be necessary or appropriate to insure the
    submission of said propositions to the people. The return of the
    votes cast on said propositions shall be made by the election
    officers directly to the Secretary of Alaska, who shall certify the
    results of the submission to the Governor. The Governor shall
    certify the results of said submission, as so ascertained, to the
    President of the United States.
      "(c) If the President shall find that the propositions set forth
    in the preceding subsection have been duly adopted by the people of
    Alaska, the President, upon certification of the returns of the
    election of the officers required to be elected as provided in
    section 7 of this Act, shall thereupon issue his proclamation
    announcing the results of said election as so ascertained. Upon the
    issuance of said proclamation by the President, the State of Alaska
    shall be deemed admitted into the Union as provided in section 1 of
    this Act.
      "Until the said State is so admitted into the Union, all of the
    officers of said Territory, including the Delegate in Congress from
    said Territory, shall continue to discharge the duties of their
    respective offices. Upon the issuance of said proclamation by the
    President of the United States and the admission of the State of
    Alaska into the Union, the officers elected at said election, and
    qualified under the provisions of the constitution and laws of said
    State, shall proceed to exercise all the functions pertaining to
    their offices in or under or by authority of the government of said
    State, and officers not required to be elected at said initial
    election shall be selected or continued in office as provided by
    the constitution and laws of said State. The Governor of said State
    shall certify the election of the Senators and Representative in
    the manner required by law, and the said Senators and
    Representative shall be entitled to be admitted to seats in
    Congress and to all the rights and privileges of Senators and
    Representatives of other States in the Congress of the United
    States.
      "(d) Upon admission of the State of Alaska into the Union as
    herein provided, all of the Territorial laws then in force in the
    Territory of Alaska shall be and continue in full force and effect
    throughout said State except as modified or changed by this Act, or
    by the constitution of the State, or as thereafter modified or
    changed by the legislature of the State. All of the laws of the
    United States shall have the same force and effect within said
    State as elsewhere within the United States. As used in this
    paragraph, the term 'Territorial laws' includes (in addition to
    laws enacted by the Territorial Legislature of Alaska) all laws or
    parts thereof enacted by the Congress the validity of which is
    dependent solely upon the authority of the Congress to provide for
    the government of Alaska prior to the admission of the State of
    Alaska into the Union, and the term 'laws of the United States'
    includes all laws or parts thereof enacted by the Congress that (1)
    apply to or within Alaska at the time of the admission of the State
    of Alaska into the Union, (2) are not 'Territorial laws' as defined
    in this paragraph, and (3) are not in conflict with any other
    provisions of this Act.
      "Sec. 9. [House of Representatives membership.] The State of
    Alaska upon its admission into the Union shall be entitled to one
    Representative until the taking effect of the next reapportionment,
    and such Representative shall be in addition to the membership of
    the House of Representatives as now prescribed by law: Provided,
    That such temporary increase in the membership shall not operate to
    either increase or decrease the permanent membership of the House
    of Representatives as prescribed in the Act of August 8, 1911 (37
    Stat. 13) nor shall such temporary increase affect the basis of
    apportionment established by the Act of November 15, 1941 (55 Stat.
    761; 2 U.S.C., sec. 2a), for the Eighty-third Congress and each
    Congress thereafter.
      "Sec. 10. [National defense withdrawals; jurisdiction.] (a) The
    President of the United States is hereby authorized to establish,
    by Executive order or proclamation, one or more special national
    defense withdrawals within the exterior boundaries of Alaska, which
    withdrawal or withdrawals may thereafter be terminated in whole or
    in part by the President.
      "(b) Special national defense withdrawals established under
    subsection (a) of this section shall be confined to those portions
    of Alaska that are situated to the north or west of the following
    line: Beginning at the point where the Porcupine River crosses the
    international boundary between Alaska and Canada; thence along a
    line parallel to, and five miles from, the right bank of the main
    channel of the Porcupine River to its confluence with the Yukon
    River; thence along a line parallel to, and five miles from, the
    right bank of the main channel of the Yukon River to its most
    southerly point of intersection with the meridian of longitude 160
    degrees west of Greenwich; thence south to the intersection of said
    meridian with the Kuskokwim River; thence along a line parallel to,
    and five miles from the right bank of the Kuskokwim River to the
    mouth of said river; thence along the shoreline of Kuskokwim Bay to
    its intersection with the meridian of longitude 162 degrees 30
    minutes west of Greenwich; thence south to the intersection of said
    meridian with the parallel of latitude 57 degrees 30 minutes north;
    thence east to the intersection of said parallel with the meridian
    of longitude 156 degrees west of Greenwich; thence south to the
    intersection of said meridian with the parallel of latitude 50
    degrees north.
      "(c) Effective upon the issuance of such Executive order or
    proclamation, exclusive jurisdiction over all special national
    defense withdrawals established under this section is hereby
    reserved to the United States, which shall have sole legislative,
    judicial, and executive power within such withdrawals, except as
    provided hereinafter. The exclusive jurisdiction so established
    shall extend to all lands within the exterior boundaries of each
    such withdrawal, and shall remain in effect with respect to any
    particular tract or parcel of land only so long as such tract or
    parcel remains within the exterior boundaries of such a withdrawal.
    The laws of the State of Alaska shall not apply to areas within any
    special national defense withdrawal established under this section
    while such areas remain subject to the exclusive jurisdiction
    hereby authorized: Provided, however, That such exclusive
    jurisdiction shall not prevent the execution of any process, civil
    or criminal, of the State of Alaska, upon any person found within
    said withdrawals: And provided further, That such exclusive
    jurisdiction shall not prohibit the State of Alaska from enacting
    and enforcing all laws necessary to establish voting districts, and
    the qualification and procedures for voting in all elections.
      "(d) During the continuance in effect of any special national
    defense withdrawal established under this section, or until the
    Congress otherwise provides, such exclusive jurisdiction shall be
    exercised within each such withdrawal in accordance with the
    following provisions of law:
      "(1) All laws enacted by the Congress that are of general
    application to areas under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United
    States, including, but without limiting the generality of the
    foregoing, those provisions of title 18, United States Code, that
    are applicable within the special maritime and territorial
    jurisdiction of the United States as defined in section 7 of said
    title, shall apply to all areas within such withdrawals.
      "(2) In addition, any areas within the withdrawals that are
    reserved by Act of Congress or by Executive action for a particular
    military or civilian use of the United States shall be subject to
    all laws enacted by the Congress that have application to lands
    withdrawn for that particular use, and any other areas within the
    withdrawals shall be subject to all laws enacted by the Congress
    that are of general application to lands withdrawn for defense
    purposes of the United States.
      "(3) To the extent consistent with the laws described in
    paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection and with regulations made
    or other actions taken under their authority, all laws in force
    within such withdrawals immediately prior to the creation thereof
    by Executive order or proclamation shall apply within the
    withdrawals and, for this purpose, are adopted as laws of the
    United States: Provided, however, That the laws of the State or
    Territory relating to the organization or powers of municipalities
    or local political subdivisions, and the laws or ordinances of such
    municipalities or political subdivisions shall not be adopted as
    laws of the United States.
      "(4) All functions vested in the United States magistrate judges
    by the laws described in this subsection shall continue to be
    performed within the withdrawals by such magistrate judges.
      "(5) All functions vested in any municipal corporation, school
    district, or other local political subdivision by the laws
    described in this subsection shall continue to be performed within
    the withdrawals by such corporation, district, or other
    subdivision, and the laws of the State or the laws or ordinances of
    such municipalities or local political subdivision shall remain in
    full force and effect notwithstanding any withdrawal made under
    this section.
      "(6) All other functions vested in the government of Alaska or in
    any officer or agency thereof, except judicial functions over which
    the United States District Court for the District of Alaska is
    given jurisdiction by this Act or other provisions of law, shall be
    performed within the withdrawals by such civilian individuals or
    civilian agencies and in such manner as the President shall from
    time to time, by Executive order, direct or authorize.
      "(7) The United States District Court for the District of Alaska
    shall have original jurisdiction, without regard to the sum or
    value of any matter in controversy, over all civil actions arising
    within such withdrawals under the laws made applicable thereto by
    this subsection, as well as over all offenses committed within the
    withdrawals.
      "(e) Nothing contained in subsection (d) of this section shall be
    construed as limiting the exclusive jurisdiction established in the
    United States by subsection (c) of this section or the authority of
    the Congress to implement such exclusive jurisdiction by
    appropriate legislation, or as denying to persons now or hereafter
    residing within any portion of the areas described in subsection
    (b) of this section the right to vote at all elections held within
    the political subdivisions as prescribed by the State of Alaska
    where they respectively reside, or as limiting the jurisdiction
    conferred on the United States District Court for the District of
    Alaska by any other provision of law, or as continuing in effect
    laws relating to the Legislature of the Territory of Alaska.
    Nothing contained in this section shall be construed as limiting
    any authority otherwise vested in the Congress or the President.
    (As amended Pub. L. 90-578, title IV, Sec. 402(b)(2), Oct. 17,
    1968, 82 Stat. 1118; Pub. L. 101-650, title III, Sec. 321, Dec. 1,
    1990, 104 Stat. 5117.)
      "Sec. 11. [Denali National Park; military and naval lands; civil
    and criminal jurisdiction.] (a) Nothing in this Act shall affect
    the establishment, or the right, ownership, and authority of the
    United States in Denali National Park, as now or hereafter
    constituted; but exclusive jurisdiction, in all cases, shall be
    exercised by the United States for the national park, as now or
    hereafter constituted; saving, however, to the State of Alaska the
    right to serve civil or criminal process within the limits of the
    aforesaid park in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights
    acquired, obligations incurred, or crimes committed in said State,
    but outside of said park; and saving further to the said State the
    right to tax persons and corporations, their franchises and
    property on the lands included in said park; and saving also to the
    persons residing now or hereafter in such area the right to vote at
    all elections held within the respective political subdivisions of
    their residence in which the park is situated.
      "(b) Notwithstanding the admission of the State of Alaska into
    the Union, authority is reserved in the United States, subject to
    the proviso hereinafter set forth, for the exercise by the Congress
    of the United States of the power of exclusive legislation, as
    provided by article I, section 8, clause 17, of the Constitution of
    the United States, in all cases whatsoever over such tracts or
    parcels of land as, immediately prior to the admission of said
    State, are owned by the United States and held for military, naval,
    Air Force, or Coast Guard purposes, including naval petroleum
    reserve numbered 4, whether such lands were acquired by cession and
    transfer to the United States by Russia and set aside by Act of
    Congress or by Executive order or proclamation of the President or
    the Governor of Alaska for the use of the United States, or were
    acquired by the United States by purchase, condemnation, donation,
    exchange, or otherwise: Provided, (i) That the State of Alaska
    shall always have the right to serve civil or criminal process
    within the said tracts or parcels of land in suits or prosecutions
    for or on account of rights acquired, obligations incurred, or
    crimes committed within the said State but outside of the said
    tracts or parcels of land; (ii) that the reservation of authority
    in the United States for the exercise by the Congress of the United
    States of the power of exclusive legislation over the lands
    aforesaid shall not operate to prevent such lands from being a part
    of the State of Alaska, or to prevent the said State from
    exercising over or upon such lands, concurrently with the United
    States, any jurisdiction whatsoever which it would have in the
    absence of such reservation of authority and which is consistent
    with the laws hereafter enacted by the Congress pursuant to such
    reservation of authority; and (iii) that such power of exclusive
    legislation shall rest and remain in the United States only so long
    as the particular tract or parcel of land involved is owned by the
    United States and used for military, naval, Air Force, or Coast
    Guard purposes. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply
    to lands within such special national defense withdrawal or
    withdrawals as may be established pursuant to section 10 of this
    Act until such lands cease to be subject to the exclusive
    jurisdiction reserved to the United States by that section. (As
    amended Pub. L. 96-487, title II, Sec. 202(3)(a), Dec. 2, 1980, 94
    Stat. 2382.)
      "Sec. 12. [Judicial and criminal provisions; amendment.]
    Effective upon the admission of Alaska into the Union - 
      "(a) The analysis of chapter 5 of title 28, United States Code,
    immediately preceding section 81 of such title, is amended by
    inserting immediately after and underneath item 81 of such
    analysis, a new item to be designated as item 81A and to read as
    follows:
    " '81A. Alaska';
      "(b) Title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting
    immediately after section 81 thereof a new section, to be
    designated as section 81A, and to read as follows:
    " 'Sec. 81A. Alaska
      " 'Alaska constitutes one judicial district.
      " 'Court shall be held at Anchorage, Fairbanks, Juneau, and
    Nome.';
      "(c) Section 133 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
    inserting in the table of districts and judges in such section
    immediately above the item: 'Arizona * * * 2', a new item as
    follows: 'Alaska * * * 1';
      "(d) The first paragraph of section 373 of title 28, United
    States Code, as heretofore amended, is further amended by striking
    out the words: 'the District Court for the Territory of Alaska,':
    Provided, That the amendment made by this subsection shall not
    affect the rights of any judge who may have retired before it takes
    effect;
      "(e) The words 'the District Court for the Territory of Alaska,'
    are stricken out wherever they appear in sections 333, 460, 610,
    753, 1252, 1291, 1292, and 1346 of title 28, United States Code;
      "(f) The first paragraph of section 1252 of title 28, United
    States Code, is further amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,'
    from the clause relating to courts of record;
      "(g) Subsection (2) of section 1294 of title 28, United States
    Code, is repealed and the later subsections of such section are
    renumbered accordingly;
      "(h) Subsection (a) of section 2410 of title 28, United States
    Code, is amended by striking out the words: 'including the District
    Court for the Territory of Alaska,';
      "(i) Section 3241 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by
    striking out the words: 'District Court for the Territory of
    Alaska, the';
      "(j) Subsection (e) of section 3401 of title 18, United States
    Code, is amended by striking out the words: 'for Alaska or';
      "(k) Section 3771 of title 18, United States Code, as heretofore
    amended, is further amended by striking out from the first
    paragraph of such section the words: 'the Territory of Alaska,';
      "(l) Section 3772 of title 18, United States Code, as heretofore
    amended, is further amended by striking out from the first
    paragraph of such section the words: 'the Territory of Alaska,';
      "(m) Section 2072 of title 28, United States Code, as heretofore
    amended, is further amended by striking out from the first
    paragraph of such section the words: 'and of the District Court for
    the Territory of Alaska';
      "(n) Subsection (q) of section 376 of title 28, United States
    Code, is amended by striking out the words: 'the District Court for
    the Territory of Alaska,': Provided, That the amendment made by
    this subsection shall not affect the rights under such section 376
    of any present or former judge of the District Court for the
    Territory of Alaska or his survivors;
      "(o) The last paragraph of section 1963 of title 28, United
    States Code, is repealed;
      "(p) Section 2201 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
    striking out the words: 'and the District Court for the Territory
    of Alaska'; and
      "(q) Section 4 of the Act of July 28, 1950 (64 Stat. 380; 5
    U.S.C., sec. 341b) is amended by striking out the word: 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 13. [Continuation of suits.] No writ, action, indictment,
    cause, or proceeding pending in the District Court for the
    Territory of Alaska on the date when said Territory shall become a
    State, and no case pending in an appellate court upon appeal from
    the District Court for the Territory of Alaska at the time said
    Territory shall become a State, shall abate by the admission of the
    State of Alaska into the Union, but the same shall be transferred
    and proceeded with as hereinafter provided.
      "All civil causes of action and all criminal offenses which shall
    have arisen or been committed prior to the admission of said State,
    but as to which no suit, action, or prosecution shall be pending at
    the date of such admission, shall be subject to prosecution in the
    appropriate State courts or in the United States District Court for
    the District of Alaska in like manner, to the same extent, and with
    like right of appellate review, as if said State had been created
    and said courts had been established prior to the accrual of said
    causes of action or the commission of such offenses; and such of
    said criminal offenses as shall have been committed against the
    laws of the Territory shall be tried and punished by the
    appropriate courts of said State, and such as shall have been
    committed against the laws of the United States shall be tried and
    punished in the United States District Court for the District of
    Alaska.
      "Sec. 14. [Appeals.] All appeals taken from the District Court
    for the Territory of Alaska to the Supreme Court of the United
    States or the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit,
    previous to the admission of Alaska as a State, shall be prosecuted
    to final determination as though this Act had not been passed. All
    cases in which final judgment has been rendered in such district
    court, and in which appeals might be had except for the admission
    of such State, may still be sued out, taken, and prosecuted to the
    Supreme Court of the United States or the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Ninth Circuit under the provisions of then existing
    law, and there held and determined in like manner; and in either
    case, the Supreme Court of the United States, or the United States
    Court of Appeals, in the event of reversal, shall remand the said
    cause to either the State supreme court or other final appellate
    court of said State, or the United States district court for said
    district, as the case may require: Provided, That the time allowed
    by existing law for appeals from the district court for said
    Territory shall not be enlarged thereby.
      "Sec. 15. [Transfer of cases.] All causes pending or determined
    in the District Court for the Territory of Alaska at the time of
    the admission of Alaska as a State which are of such nature as to
    be within the jurisdiction of a district court of the United States
    shall be transferred to the United States District Court for the
    District of Alaska for final disposition and enforcement in the
    same manner as is now provided by law with reference to the
    judgments and decrees in existing United States district courts.
    All other causes pending or determined in the District Court for
    the Territory of Alaska at the time of the admission of Alaska as a
    State shall be transferred to the appropriate State court of
    Alaska. All final judgments and decrees rendered upon such
    transferred cases in the United States District Court for the
    District of Alaska may be reviewed by the Supreme Court of the
    United States or by the United States Court of Appeals for the
    Ninth Circuit in the same manner as is now provided by law with
    reference to the judgments and decrees in existing United States
    district courts.
      "Sec. 16. [Succession of courts.] Jurisdiction of all cases
    pending or determined in the District Court for the Territory of
    Alaska not transferred to the United States District Court for the
    District of Alaska shall devolve upon and be exercised by the
    courts of original jurisdiction created by said State, which shall
    be deemed to be the successor of the District Court for the
    Territory of Alaska with respect to cases not so transferred and,
    as such, shall take and retain custody of all records, dockets,
    journals, and files of such court pertaining to such cases. The
    files and papers in all cases so transferred to the United States
    district court, together with a transcript of all book entries to
    complete the record in such particular cases so transferred, shall
    be in like manner transferred to said district court.
      "Sec. 17. [Pending cases in the District Court for the Territory
    of Alaska.] All cases pending in the District Court for the
    Territory of Alaska at the time said Territory becomes a State not
    transferred to the United States District Court for the District of
    Alaska shall be proceeded with and determined by the courts created
    by said State with the right to prosecute appeals to the appellate
    courts created by said State, and also with the same right to
    prosecute appeals or writs of certiorari from the final
    determination in said causes made by the court of last resort
    created by such State to the Supreme Court of the United States, as
    now provided by law for appeals and writs of certiorari from the
    court of last resort of a State to the Supreme Court of the United
    States.
      "Sec. 18. [Jurisdiction of District Court; termination date.] The
    provisions of the preceding sections with respect to the
    termination of the jurisdiction of the District Court for the
    Territory of Alaska, the continuation of suits, the succession of
    courts, and the satisfaction of rights of litigants in suits before
    such courts, shall not be effective until three years after the
    effective date of this Act, unless the President, by Executive
    order, shall sooner proclaim that the United States District Court
    for the District of Alaska, established in accordance with the
    provisions of this Act, is prepared to assume the functions imposed
    upon it. During such period of three years or until such Executive
    order is issued, the United States District Court for the Territory
    of Alaska shall continue to function as heretofore. The tenure of
    the judges, the United States attorneys, marshals, and other
    officers of the United States District Court for the Territory of
    Alaska shall terminate at such time as that court shall cease to
    function as provided in this section.
      "Sec. 19. [Federal Reserve Act; amendment.] The first paragraph
    of section 2 of the Federal Reserve Act (38 Stat. 251) is amended
    by striking out the last sentence thereof and inserting in lieu of
    such sentence the following: 'When the State of Alaska is hereafter
    admitted to the Union the Federal Reserve districts shall be
    readjusted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
    in such manner as to include such State. Every national bank in any
    State shall, upon commencing business or within ninety days after
    admission into the Union of the State in which it is located,
    become a member bank of the Federal Reserve System by subscribing
    and paying for stock in the Federal Reserve bank of its district in
    accordance with the provisions of this Act and shall thereupon be
    an insured bank under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, and
    failure to do so shall subject such bank to the penalty provided by
    the sixth paragraph of this section.'
      "Sec. 20. [Reservation of coal lands; repeal.] Section 2 of the
    Act of October 20, 1914 (38 Stat. 742, 48 U.S.C., sec. 433), is
    hereby repealed.
      "Sec. 21. [United States Nationality.] Nothing contained in this
    Act shall operate to confer United States nationality, nor to
    terminate nationality heretofore lawfully acquired, nor restore
    nationality heretofore lost under any law of the United States or
    under any treaty to which the United States may have been a party.
      "Sec. 22. [Immigration and Nationality Act; amendment.] Section
    101(a)(36) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (66 Stat. 170, 8
    U.S.C., sec. 1101(a)(36)) is amended by deleting the word
    'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 23. [Immigration and Nationality Act; amendment.] The first
    sentence of section 212(d)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality
    Act (66 Stat. 188, 8 U.S.C., sec. 1182(d)(7)) is amended by
    deleting the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 24. [Persons born in Alaska on or after March 30, 1867.]
    Nothing contained in this Act shall be held to repeal, amend, or
    modify the provisions of section 304 of the Immigration and
    Nationality Act (66 Stat. 237, 8 U.S.C., sec. 1404).
      "Sec. 25. [Immigration and Nationality Act; amendment.] The first
    sentence of section 310(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
    (66 Stat. 239, 8 U.S.C., sec. 1421(a)) is amended by deleting the
    words 'District Courts of the United States for the Territories of
    Hawaii and Alaska' and substituting therefor the words 'District
    Court of the United States for the Territory of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 26. [Immigration and Nationality Act; amendment.] Section
    344(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (66 Stat. 265, 8
    U.S.C., sec. 1455(d)) is amended by deleting the words 'in Alaska
    and'.
      "Sec. 27. [Transportation by water.] (a) The third proviso in
    section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, as amended (46 U.S.C.
    [App.], sec. 883) [now 46 U.S.C. 55116], is further amended by
    striking out the word 'excluding' and inserting in lieu thereof the
    word 'including'.
      "(b) Nothing contained in this or any other Act shall be
    construed as depriving the Federal Maritime Board of the exclusive
    jurisdiction heretofore conferred on it over common carriers
    engaged in transportation by water between any port in the State of
    Alaska and other ports in the United States, its Territories or
    possessions, or as conferring upon the Interstate Commerce
    Commission jurisdiction over transportation by water between any
    such ports.
      "Sec. 28. [Mines and mining.] (a) The last sentence of section 9
    of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for the leasing of coal
    lands in the Territory of Alaska, and for other purposes', approved
    October 20, 1914 (48 U.S.C. 439), is hereby amended to read as
    follows: 'All net profits from operation of Government mines, and
    all bonuses, royalties, and rentals under leases as herein provided
    and all other payments received under this Act shall be distributed
    as follows as soon as practicable after December 31 and June 30 of
    each year: (1) 90 per centum thereof shall be paid by the Secretary
    of the Treasury to the State of Alaska for disposition by the
    legislature thereof; and (2) 10 per centum shall be deposited in
    the Treasury of the United States to the credit of miscellaneous
    receipts.'
      "(b) Section 35 of the Act entitled 'An Act to promote the mining
    of coal, phosphate, oil, oil shale, gas, and sodium on the public
    domain', approved February 25, 1920, as amended (30 U.S.C. 191), is
    hereby amended by inserting immediately before the colon preceding
    the first proviso thereof the following: ', and of those from
    Alaska 52 1/2  per centum thereof shall be paid to the State of
    Alaska for disposition by the legislature thereof'.
      "Sec. 29. [Separability clause.] If any provision of this Act, or
    any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or individual
    word, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
    held invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Act and of the
    application of any such provision, section, subsection, sentence,
    clause, phrase, or individual word to other persons and
    circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
      "Sec. 30. [Repeal of inconsistent laws.] All Acts or parts of
    Acts in conflict with the provisions of this Act, whether passed by
    the legislature of said Territory or by Congress, are hereby
    repealed."

                            ALASKA OMNIBUS ACT                        
      Pub. L. 86-70, June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 141, as amended, provided:
      "[Sec. 1. Short Title.] That this Act may be cited as the 'Alaska
    Omnibus Act'.
      "Sec. 2 [Federal jurisdiction.] (a) Section 4 of the Act of July
    7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339) [set out as a note above], providing for the
    admission of the State of Alaska into the Union, is amended by
    striking out the words 'all such lands or other property, belonging
    to the United States or which may belong to said natives', and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'all such lands or other
    property (including fishing rights), the right or title to which
    may be held by said natives or is held by the United States in
    trust for said natives'.
      "(b) Section 6(e) of said Act is amended by striking out the word
    'legislative' and inserting in lieu thereof the word 'calendar'.
      "Sec. 3. [Termination of application of certain Federal laws.]
    Any Territorial law, as that term is defined in section 8(d) of the
    Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 344) [set out as a note above],
    providing for the admission of the State of Alaska into the Union -
    
        "(a) which provides for the regulation of commerce within
      Alaska by an agency of the United States, and
        "(b) the application of which to the State of Alaska is
      continued solely by reason of such section 8(d), shall cease to
      apply to the State of Alaska on June 30, 1961, or on the
      effective date of any law enacted by the Legislature of the State
      of Alaska which modifies or changes such Territorial law,
      whichever occurs first.
      "Sec. 4. [Sugar Act; amendment.] Section 101 of the Sugar Act of
    1948, as amended (7 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1101), is further amended
    by adding thereto a new subsection, to be designated subsection
    '(o)' and to read as follows:
      " '(o) The term "continental United States" means the 49 States
    and the District of Columbia.'
      "Sec. 5. [Soil Bank Act; amendment.] Section 113 of the Soil Bank
    Act (7 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1837), is amended to read as follows:
    'This subtitle B shall apply to the continental United States,
    except Alaska, and, if the Secretary determines it to be in the
    national interest, to the State of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii,
    the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and as
    used in this subtitle B, the term "State" includes Hawaii, Puerto
    Rico, and the Virgin Islands.'
      "Sec. 6. [Armed Forces; amendment.] (a) Title 10, United States
    Code, section 101(2), is amended by striking out the words 'Alaska,
    Hawaii,' and inserting in lieu thereof the word 'Hawaii'.
      "(b) Title 10, United States Code, sections 802(11) and 802(12),
    are each amended by striking out the words 'that part of Alaska
    east of longitude 172 degrees west,'.
      "(c) Title 10, United States Code, section 2662(c), is amended by
    striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 7. [National Bank Act; amendment.] Section 5192 of the
    Revised Statutes, as amended (12 U.S.C. 144), is further amended by
    striking out the words 'in Alaska or'.
      "Sec. 8. [Federal Reserve Act; amendment.] (a) Section 1 of the
    Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 221), is further amended
    by deleting the period at the end of such section and inserting in
    lieu thereof the following: '; the term "the continental United
    States" means the States of the United States and the District of
    Columbia.'
      "(b) Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
    466), is further amended by striking the words 'in Alaska or'.
      "Sec. 9. [Home Loan Bank Board.] (a) Paragraph (3) [now (2)] of
    section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
    1422(3) [now 1422(2)]), is further amended by striking out the
    words 'Territories of Alaska and Hawaii' and inserting in lieu
    thereof the words 'Territory of Hawaii'.
      "(b) Section 7 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended
    (12 U.S.C. 1466), is further amended by striking out the words
    'continental United States, to the Territories of Alaska and
    Hawaii' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'continental United
    States (including Alaska), to the Territory of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 10. [National Housing Act; amendment.] The National Housing
    Act is amended by - 
        "(a) striking out the word 'Alaska,' in sections 9, 201(d),
      207(a)(7), 601(d), 713(q), and 801(g) (12 U.S.C., secs. 1706d,
      1707(d), 1713(a)(7), 1736(d), 1747l(q); supp. V, sec. 1748(g));
        "(b) striking out the words 'the Territory of Alaska,' in
      section 207(c)(2) (12 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1713(c)(2)), and
      inserting the word 'Alaska' in lieu thereof;
        "(c) by striking out the words 'the Territory of Alaska or in
      Guam' in section 214 (12 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1715d; 48 U.S.C.,
      supp. V, sec. 484d), and inserting the words 'Alaska, Guam,' in
      lieu thereof; and
        "(d) striking out the words 'Territory' in the two places where
      it appears in section 806 (12 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1748e), and
      inserting the word 'State' in lieu thereof.
      "Sec. 11. [Coast Guard; amendment.] Title 14, United States Code,
    section 634(b), is amended by striking out the words 'and for the
    territory of' in both places where they appear therein.
      "Sec. 12. [Securities and Exchange Commission.] (a) Paragraph (6)
    of section 2 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (15 U.S.C.
    77b(6)), is further amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "(b) Paragraph (16) of section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)), is further amended
    by striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "(c) Paragraph (18) of section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers
    Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(18)), is further
    amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "(d) Paragraph (37) of section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act
    of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(37)), is further amended by
    striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "(e) Paragraph (1) of section 6(a) of the Investment Company Act
    of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80a-6(a)(1)), is further amended by
    striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 13. [Soil Conservation.] (a) Section 8(b) of the Soil
    Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act, as amended (16 U.S.C.,
    supp. V, sec. 590h(b)), is further amended by inserting,
    immediately following the words 'continental United States', the
    words ', except in Alaska'.
      "(b) Section 17(a) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic
    Allotment Act, as amended (16 U.S.C. 590q(a)), is further amended
    by striking out the words 'the United States, the Territories of
    Alaska and Hawaii' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'the
    States, the Territory of Hawaii', and by striking out the word
    'Alaska' the second time it appears therein.
      "Sec. 14. [Bald Eagles.] Section 1 of the Act of June 8, 1940 (16
    U.S.C. 668), is amended by striking out the words 'except the
    Territory of Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 15. [Wildlife restoration.] Section 8(a) of the Act of
    September 2, 1937, as amended (16 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 669g-1), is
    further amended by striking out the words 'the Alaska Game
    Commission,', 'said Territory of Alaska',' 'not exceeding $75,000
    for Alaska, and', and 'the Territory of Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 16. [Fish restoration.] Section 12 of the Act of August 9,
    1950, as amended (16 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 777k), is further
    amended by striking out the words 'the Alaska Game Commission,',
    'said Territory of Alaska,', 'not exceeding $75,000 for Alaska,
    and', and 'the Territory of Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 17. [Criminal Code; amendments.] (a) Title 18, United
    States Code, section 5024, is amended by striking out the words
    'other than Alaska' and inserting in lieu thereof the words
    'including Alaska'.
      "(b) Section 6 of the Act of August 25, 1958 (72 Stat. 845, 847),
    is amended by striking out the words 'other than Alaska' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'including Alaska'.
      "(c) Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall be effective
    on July 7, 1961, or on the date of the Executive order referred to
    in section 18 of the Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 350),
    providing for the admission of the State of Alaska into the Union,
    whichever occurs first.
      "(d) Title 18, United States Code, section 1385, is amended by
    deleting the last sentence thereof.
      "Sec. 18. [Education.] (a)(1) Subsection (a) of section 103 of
    the National Defense Education Act of 1958 (72 Stat. 1580, 1582),
    relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out
    'Alaska,' each time it appears.
      "(2) Paragraph (3)(B) of section 302(a) of such Act (72 Stat.
    1580, 1588), relating to definition of continental United States
    for purposes of allotments for science, mathematics and modern
    foreign language instruction equipment, is amended by striking out
    'does not include Alaska' and inserting in lieu thereof 'includes
    Alaska'.
      "(3) Section 1008 of such Act (72 Stat. 1580, 1605), relating to
    allotments to territories, is amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(b)(1) Section 4 of the Act of February 23, 1917 (20 U.S.C. 14),
    relating to allotments for teacher-training, is amended by striking
    out '$90,000' and inserting in lieu thereof '$98,500'. The proviso
    in the last paragraph of section 5 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 16) and
    so much of section 12 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 22) as follows the
    last semicolon shall not be applicable to Alaska prior to the third
    fiscal year which begins after the enactment of this Act.
      "(2) Paragraph (1) of section 2 of the Vocational Education Act
    of 1946 (20 U.S.C. 15i), relating to definition of States and
    Territories, is amended by striking out 'the Territories of Alaska
    and Hawaii' and inserting in lieu thereof 'the Territory of
    Hawaii'.
      "(3) Subsection (e) of section 210 (20 U.S.C., supp. V, sec.
    15jj(e)), and subsection (a) of section 307 of such Act (72 Stat.
    1580, 1600), relating to definition of State, are each amended by
    striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(c) Paragraph (13) of section 15 of the Act of September 23,
    1950, as amended (72 Stat. 548, 558), relating to definition of
    State, is amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(d)(1) The material in the parentheses in the first sentence of
    subsection (d) of section 3 of the Act of September 30, 1950, as
    amended, relating to determination of local contribution rate, is
    amended to read: '(other than a local educational agency in Hawaii,
    Puerto Rico, Wake Island, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, or in a
    State in which a substantial proportion of the land is in
    unorganized territory for which a State agency is the local
    educational agency)'.
      "(2) The fourth sentence of such subsection is amended by
    inserting '(including Alaska)' after 'continental United States'
    the first time it appears in such sentence. The fifth sentence of
    such subsection is amended by inserting '(including Alaska)' after
    'continental United States' the second time it appears in such
    sentence.
      "(3) The last sentence of such subsection is amended by striking
    out 'Alaska,' and by inserting after 'the Virgin Islands,' the
    following: 'or in any State in which a substantial proportion of
    the land is in unorganized territory for which a State agency is
    the local educational agency,'.
      "(4) Paragraph (8) of section 9 of such Act (20 U.S.C., supp. V,
    sec. 244(8)), relating to definition of State, is amended by
    striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 19. [Importation of milk and cream.] Subsection (b) of
    section 9 of the Act of February 15, 1927 (21 U.S.C. 149(b)), is
    amended by inserting the words, ', including Alaska' immediately
    following the words 'continental United States'.
      "Sec. 20. [Opium Poppy Control.] Section 12 of the Opium Poppy
    Control Act of 1942 (21 U.S.C. 188k) is amended by deleting
    therefrom the words 'the Territory of Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 21. [Highways.] (a) The Secretary of Transportation shall
    transfer to the State of Alaska by appropriate conveyance without
    compensation, but upon such terms and conditions as he may deem
    desirable, all lands or interests in lands, including buildings and
    fixtures, all personal property, including machinery, office
    equipment, and supplies, and all records pertaining to roads in
    Alaska, which are owned, held, administered by, or used by the
    Secretary in connection with the activities of the Bureau of Public
    Roads in Alaska, (i) except such lands or interests in lands,
    including buildings and fixtures, personal property, including
    machinery, office equipment, and supplies, and records as the
    Secretary may determine are needed for the operations, activities,
    and functions of the Bureau of Public Roads in Alaska after such
    transfer, including services or functions performed pursuant to
    section 44 of this Act; and (ii) except such lands or interests in
    lands as he or the head of any other Federal agency may determine
    are needed for continued retention in Federal ownership for
    purposes other than or in addition to road purposes.
      "(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any
    contract entered into by the Federal Government in connection with
    the activities of the Bureau of Public Roads in Alaska which has
    not been completed on the date of the transfer provided under
    subsection (a) hereof may be completed according to the terms
    thereof.
      "(c)(1) The State of Alaska shall be responsible for the
    maintenance of roads, including bridges, tunnels, and ferries,
    transferred to it under subsection (a) of this section, as long as
    any such road is needed for highway purposes.
      "(2) Federal-aid funds apportioned to Alaska under title 23,
    United States Code, for fiscal year 1960 and prior fiscal years,
    and unobligated on the date of enactment of this Act, may be used
    for maintenance of highways on the Federal-aid systems in Alaska.
      "(d) Effective July 1, 1959, the following provisions of law are
    repealed:
      "(1) Title 23, United States Code, section 103(f);
      "(2) Title 23, United States Code, section 116(d);
      "(3) Title 23, United States Code, section 119;
      "(4) Title 23, United States Code, section 120(h), except that
    the portion of the first sentence thereof relating to the
    percentage of funds to be contributed by Alaska shall continue to
    apply to funds apportioned to Alaska for fiscal year 1960 and prior
    fiscal years;
      "(5) Sections 107(b) and (d) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of
    1956 (70 Stat. 374, 377, 378);
      "(6) Section 2 of the Act of January 27, 1905 (33 Stat. 616), as
    amended (48 U.S.C. 322 and the following); and
      "(7) The Act of June 30, 1932 (47 Stat. 446), as amended (48
    U.S.C. 321(a) and the following).
      "(e) Effective on July 1, 1959, the following provisions of law
    are amended:
      "(1) The definition of the term 'State' in title 23, United
    States Code, section 101(a), is amended to read as follows:
        " 'The term "State" means any one of the forty-nine States, the
      District of Columbia, Hawaii, or Puerto Rico.';
      "(2) Title 23, United States Code, section 104(b), is amended by
    deleting the phrase ', except that only one-third of the area of
    Alaska shall be included' where it appears in paragraphs (1) and
    (2) of said section 104(b);
      "(3) Title 23, United States Code, section 116(a), is amended by
    deleting the phrase 'Except as provided in subsection (d) of this
    section,' and by capitalizing the word 'it' immediately following
    such phrase; and
      "(4) Title 23, United States Code, section 120(a), is amended by
    deleting the phrase 'subsection (d) and (h)' and by inserting in
    lieu thereof the phrase 'subsection (d)'.
      "(f) Notwithstanding the limitation contained in subsection (f)
    of section 120 of Title 23, United States Code, the Secretary of
    Transportation is authorized to make expenditures from the
    emergency fund under section 125 of such title for the repair or
    reconstruction of highways on the Federal-aid highway systems of
    Alaska which have been damaged or destroyed by the 1964 earthquake
    and subsequent seismic waves, in accordance with the Federal share
    payable under subsection (a) of section 120 of such title. The
    increase in expenditures resulting from the difference between the
    Federal share authorized by this subsection and that authorized by
    subsection (f) of section 120 of such title shall be reimbursed to
    the emergency fund by an appropriation from the general fund of the
    Treasury: Provided, That such increase in expenditures shall not
    exceed $15,000,000 in the aggregate. (As amended Pub. L. 88-451,
    Sec. 3, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat. 505; Pub. L. 97-449, Sec. 2(a),
    Jan. 12, 1983, 96 Stat. 2439.)
      "Sec. 22. [Internal Revenue.] (a) Section 2202 of the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to missionaries in foreign service),
    and sections 3121(e)(1), 3306(j), 4221(d)(4), and 4233(b) of such
    Code (each relating to a special definition of 'State') are amended
    by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(b) Section 4262(c)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (definition of 'continental United States') is amended to read as
    follows:
        " '(1) Continental United States. - The term "continental
      United States" means the District of Columbia and the States
      other than Alaska.'
      "(c) Section 4502(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of 'United States') is amended by striking
    out 'the Territories of Hawaii and Alaska' and by inserting in lieu
    thereof 'the Territory of Hawaii'.
      "(d) Section 4774 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating
    to territorial extent of law) is amended by striking out 'the
    Territory of Alaska,'.
      "(e) Section 7621(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to boundaries of internal revenue districts) is amended
    to read as follows:
        " '(b) Boundaries. - For the purpose mentioned in subsection
      (a), the President may subdivide any State, Territory, or the
      District of Columbia, or may unite into one district two or more
      States or a Territory and one or more States.'
      "(f) Section 7653(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
    amended by striking out 'its Territories or possessions' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'its possessions or the Territory of
    Hawaii'.
      "(g) Section 7701(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of 'United States') is amended by striking
    out 'the Territories of Alaska and Hawaii' and inserting in lieu
    thereof 'the Territory of Hawaii'.
      "(h) Section 7701(a)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of State) is amended by striking out
    'Territories' and inserting in lieu thereof 'Territory of Hawaii'.
      "(i) The amendments contained in subsections (a) through (h) of
    this section shall be effective as of January 3, 1959. (As amended
    Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)
      "Sec. 23. [Courts.] (a) The Judicial Conference of the United
    States, with the assistance of the Administrative Office of the
    United States Courts, shall conduct a study, including a field
    survey, of the Federal Judicial business arising in the State of
    Alaska with a view toward directing the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to hold such terms of court in
    Anchorage or such other Alaskan cities as may be necessary for the
    prompt and efficient administration of justice.
      "(b) Title 28, United States Code, section 81A, is amended by
    inserting the word 'Ketchikan,' immediately following the word
    'Juneau,'.
      "(c) Such authority as has been exercised by the Attorney General
    heretofore, with regard to the Federal court system in Alaska,
    pursuant to section 30 of the Act of June 6, 1900 (48 U.S.C. 25),
    shall continue to be exercised by him after the court created by
    section 12(b) of the Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 348) [set
    out above], providing for the admission of the State of Alaska into
    the Union, is established.
      "(d) All balances of public moneys received by the clerks of each
    division of the District Court for the Territory of Alaska pursuant
    to section 10 of the Act of June 6, 1900, as amended (48 U.S.C.
    107), which are on hand after all payments ordered by that court
    and approved by the Administrative Office of the United States
    Courts shall have been made, shall be covered into the Treasury of
    the United States as required by law, and the Secretary of the
    Treasury shall pay the amounts so covered, which are hereby
    appropriated, to the State of Alaska.
      "Sec. 24. [Vocational Rehabilitation Act; amendment.] (a)
    Subsection (g) of section 11 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act
    (29 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 41(g)), relating to definition of State,
    is amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(b)(1) Subsection (i) and paragraph (1) of subsection (h) of
    such section, relating to definition of allotment percentages and
    Federal shares for purposes of allotment and matching for
    vocational rehabilitation services, are each amended by striking
    out '(excluding Alaska)' and inserting in lieu thereof '(including
    Alaska)'.
      "(2) Paragraph (1) of such subsection (h) is further amended by
    striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(3) Such subsection (i) is further amended by striking out
    'Hawaii and Alaska' in clause (B) and inserting in lieu thereof
    'Hawaii',
      "Sec. 25. [Gold Reserve Act; amendment.] Section 15 of the Gold
    Reserve Act of 1934, as amended (31 U.S.C. 444), is further amended
    by striking out the words ', the District of Columbia, and the
    Territory of Alaska' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'and
    the District of Columbia'.
      "Sec. 26. [Silver Purchase Act; amendment.] Section 10 of the
    Silver Purchase Act of 1934 (31 U.S.C. 448b), is amended by
    striking out the words ', the District of Columbia, and the
    Territory of Alaska' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'and
    the District of Columbia'.
      "Sec. 27. [National Guard; amendment.] Title 32, United States
    Code, section 101(1), is amended by striking out the words 'Alaska,
    Hawaii,' and inserting in lieu thereof the word 'Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 28. [Water Pollution Control Act; amendment.] (a) Paragraph
    (1) of section 5(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33
    U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 466d(h)(1)), relating to Federal share for
    purposes of matching for program operation, is amended by striking
    out '(excluding Alaska)' and inserting in lieu thereof '(including
    Alaska)' and by striking out, in clause (B), 'and Alaska'.
      "(b) Subsection (d) of section 11 of such Act (33 U.S.C., Supp.
    V, sec. 466j(d)), is amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 29. [Veterans' Benefits; amendment.] (a) Title 38, United
    States Code, section 903(b) [now 2303(b)], is amended by striking
    out the words ', or to the place of burial within Alaska if the
    deceased was a resident of Alaska who had been brought to the
    United States as a beneficiary of the Veterans' Administration for
    hospital or domiciliary care'; by inserting the word 'continental'
    immediately before the words 'United States' the second time they
    appear in such section; and by inserting, immediately following the
    words 'continental United States' in both places where they appear
    in such section, the parenthetical phrase '(including Alaska)'.
      "(b) Title 38, United States Code, section 2007(c) [now 4107(c)],
    is amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 30. [Federal Property and Administrative Services Act;
    amendment.] (a) Subsection (f) of section 3 of the Federal Property
    and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 472(f)) [now 40
    U.S.C. 102(6)], is amended by striking out the words ', Hawaii,
    Alaska,' and inserting in lieu thereof the words '(including
    Alaska), Hawaii,'.
      "(b) Subsection (a) of section 702 of such Act ([former] 40
    U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 522(a)), is amended by striking out the words
    'Territories of Alaska and Hawaii' and inserting in lieu thereof
    the words 'Territory of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 31. [Public Health Service Act; amendment.] (a) Subsection
    (f) of section 2 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.
    201(f)), relating to definition of State, is amended by striking
    out 'Hawaii, Alaska,' and inserting in lieu thereof 'Hawaii,' and
    by striking out ', the District of Columbia, or Alaska' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'or the District of Columbia'.
      "(b)(1) Effective July 1, 1959, section 371 of the Public Health
    Service Act, as added by the Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act (42
    U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 273), is repealed.
      "(2) Subsection (a) of section 372 of such Act (42 U.S.C., supp.
    V, sec. 274(a)), is amended by striking out 'the Territory of'.
      "(3) Subsections (b), (c), and (e) of such section are each
    amended by striking out 'the Territory' each time it appears and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'Alaska'.
      "(4) Such subsection (e) is further amended by striking out 'the
    Territory's' and inserting in lieu thereof 'Alaska's'.
      "(c)(1) Subsection (a) of section 631 of such Act (42 U.S.C.,
    supp. V, sec. 291i(a)), relating to definition of allotment
    percentage for purposes of allotments for construction, is amended
    by striking out '(excluding Alaska)' and inserting in lieu thereof
    '(including Alaska)' and by striking out 'for Alaska and Hawaii
    shall be 50 per centum each' in clause (2) and inserting in lieu
    thereof 'for Hawaii shall be 50 per centum'.
      "(2) Subsection (d) of such section, relating to definition of
    State, is amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 32. [Social Security Act; amendment.] (a) Paragraph (8) of
    section 1101(a) of the Social Security Act (72 Stat. 1013, 1050),
    relating to definition of Federal percentage for purposes of
    matching for public assistance grants, is amended by striking out
    'Alaska and' in clause (ii) of subparagraph (A) and by striking out
    '(excluding Alaska)' in subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting in
    lieu thereof '(including Alaska)'.
      "(b)(1) Subsection (a) of section 524 of the Social Security Act
    (72 Stat. 1013, 1054), relating to definition of allotment
    percentage for purposes of allotments for child welfare services,
    is amended by striking out '50 per centum in the case of Alaska
    and' in clause (B).
      "(2) Subsection (b) of such section, relating to definition of
    Federal share for purposes of matching for child welfare services,
    is amended by striking out '50 per centum in the case of Alaska
    and' in clause (2).
      "(3) Such subsections (a) and (b), and subsection (c) of such
    section, relating to promulgation of Federal shares and allotment
    percentages, are each amended by striking out '(excluding Alaska)'
    and inserting in lieu thereof '(including Alaska)'.
      "(c)(1) The last sentence of section 202(i) of the Social
    Security Act (42 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 402(i)), is amended by
    striking out 'forty-eight' and inserting in lieu thereof 'forty-
    nine'.
      "(2) Subsections (h) and (i) of section 210 of such Act (42
    U.S.C. 410(h), (i)), relating to definitions of State and United
    States for purposes of old-age, survivors, and disability
    insurance, are each amended by striking out 'Alaska,'.
      "(d)(1) Paragraph (1) of section 1101(a) of the Social Security
    Act (42 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 1301(a)(1)), relating to definition
    of State, is amended by striking out 'Alaska, Hawaii,' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'Hawaii'.
      "(2) Paragraph (2) of such section (42 U.S.C., 1301(a)(2)),
    relating to definition of United States, is amended by striking out
    'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 33. [Congressional Record.] Section 73 of the Act of
    January 12, 1895, as amended (44 U.S.C., supp. V, sec. 183), is
    further amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,' [Repealed by
    Pub. L. 90-620, Sec. 3, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1310].
      "Sec. 34. [Federal Register.] Section 8 of the Federal Register
    Act (44 U.S.C. 308) is amended by striking out the parenthetical
    phrase '(not including Alaska)' and inserting in lieu thereof the
    parenthetical phrase '(including Alaska)' [Repealed by Pub. L. 90-
    620, Sec. 3, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1310].
      "Sec. 35. [Airports.] (a) The Administrator of the Federal
    Aviation Agency is authorized and directed to transfer to the State
    of Alaska by appropriate conveyance, and subject to such terms and
    conditions as he may deem appropriate, all the right, title, and
    interest of the United States in and to the public airports
    constructed and operated pursuant to the Act of May 28, 1948, as
    amended (48 U.S.C. 485 and the following), including all the land,
    buildings, structures, facilities, equipment, and other personal
    property appurtenant thereto and necessary for the operation
    thereof, except for such property, real or personal, as the
    Administrator may determine is needed for the performance of
    functions of the United States in Alaska after such transfer. Such
    transfer shall be without monetary consideration to the United
    States.
      "(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, any
    contract entered into by the Federal Aviation Agency in connection
    with its activities with respect to public airports constructed and
    operated pursuant to the Act of May 28, 1948, as amended (48 U.S.C.
    485 and the following), which has not been completed by the date of
    enactment of this Act, may be completed according to the terms
    thereof.
      "Sec. 36. [Selective Service.] Section 16(b) of the Universal
    Military Training and Service Act, as amended (50 U.S.C., app.,
    sec. 466(b)), is further amended by striking out the word
    'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 37. [Real property transactions.] Section 43(c) of the Act
    of August 10, 1956 (50 U.S.C. app., supp. V, sec. 2285(c)), is
    amended by striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 38. [Recreation facilities.] Section 2 of the Act of May 4,
    1956 (70 Stat. 130), is hereby repealed. There are hereby
    authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year ending June 30,
    1960, such sums as may be necessary to complete the construction of
    facilities described in section 1 of such Act, as amended by the
    Act of August 30, 1957 (71 Stat. 510), if construction was begun
    prior to June 30, 1959, and to maintain the facilities pending
    their transfer pursuant to such section.
      "Sec. 39. [Aircraft loan guarantees.] Section 3 of the Act of
    September 7, 1957 (71 Stat. 629), is amended by striking out the
    words 'Territory of Alaska' and inserting in lieu thereof the words
    'State of Alaska'.
      "Sec. 40. [Defense Base Act; amendment.] (a) Paragraphs (2) and
    (3) of section 1(a) of the Defense Base Act, as amended (55 Stat.
    622; 42 U.S.C. 1651 and the following), are amended by striking out
    'Alaska;' in the parenthetical phrase in each paragraph.
      "(b) Paragraph (6) of section 1(a) of that Act is amended by
    striking out 'or in Alaska or the Canal Zone'.
      "(c) Section 1(b) of that Act is amended by striking the period
    at the end of paragraph (3), inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon,
    and adding the following paragraph:
      " '(4) the term "continental United States" means the States and
    the District of Columbia.'
      "Sec. 41. [Timber removal.] The Act of March 3, 1891 (26 Stat.
    1093), as amended (16 U.S.C. 607), is further amended by deleting
    the words 'Territory of Alaska' and the words 'or Territory' where
    they there appear and by inserting the word 'Alaska,' after the
    words 'In the State of'.
      "Sec. 42. [War Hazards Compensation Act; amendment.] (a)
    Paragraphs (2), (3), and (5) of section 101(a) of the War Hazards
    Compensation Act, as amended (56 Stat. 1028; 42 U.S.C. 1701 and the
    following), are amended by striking out 'or in Alaska or the Canal
    Zone'.
      "(b) Section 104 of that Act [42 U.S.C. 1704] is amended by
    adding the following new subsection at the end thereof:
      " '(c) The provisions of this section shall not apply with
    respect to benefits on account of any injury or death occurring
    within any State.'
      "(c) Section 201 of that Act [42 U.S.C. 1711] is amended by
    adding the following new subsection at the end thereof:
      " '(f) the term "continental United States" means the States and
    the District of Columbia.'
      "Sec. 43. [Buy American Act; amendment.] Section 1(b) of Title
    III of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10c(b)), is amended by
    striking out the word 'Alaska,'.
      "Sec. 44. [Transitional grants.] (a) In order to assist the State
    of Alaska in accomplishing an orderly transition from Territorial
    status to statehood, and in order to facilitate the assumption by
    the State of Alaska of responsibilities hitherto performed in
    Alaska by the Federal Government, there are hereby authorized to be
    appropriated to the President, for the purpose of making
    transitional grants to the State of Alaska, the sum of $10,500,000
    for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1960; the sum of $6,000,000 for
    each of the fiscal years ending June 30, 1961, and June 30, 1962;
    the sum of $3,000,000 for each of the fiscal years ending June 30,
    1963, and June 30, 1964; and the sum of $23,500,000 for the period
    ending June 30, 1966.
      "(b) The Governor of Alaska may submit to the President a request
    that a Federal agency continue to provide services or facilities in
    Alaska for an interim period, pending the provision of such
    services or facilities by the State of Alaska. Such interim period
    shall not extend beyond June 30, 1966. In the event of such
    request, and in the event of the approval thereof by the President,
    the President may allocate, at his discretion, to such agency the
    funds necessary to finance the provision of such services or
    facilities. Such funds shall be allocated from appropriations made
    pursuant to subsection (a) hereof, and the amount of such funds
    shall be deducted from the amount of grants available to the State
    of Alaska pursuant to such subsection.
      "(c) After the transfer or conveyance to the State of Alaska of
    any property or function pursuant to the Act of July 7, 1958 (72
    Stat. 339) [set out as a note above], providing for the admission
    of the State of Alaska into the Union, or pursuant to this Act or
    any other law, and until June 30, 1966, the head of the Federal
    agency having administrative jurisdiction of such property prior to
    its transfer or conveyance may contract with the State of Alaska
    for the performance by such agency, on a reimbursable basis, of
    some or all of the functions authorized to be performed by it in
    Alaska immediately preceding such conveyance or transfer. (As
    amended Pub. L. 88-311, Secs. 1, 2, May 27, 1964, 78 Stat. 201.)
      "Sec. 45. [Transfer of property.] (a) If the President determines
    that any function performed by the Federal Government in Alaska has
    been terminated or curtailed by the Federal Government and that
    performance of such function or substantially the same function has
    been or will be assumed by the State of Alaska, the President may,
    until July 1, 1966, in his discretion, transfer and convey to the
    State of Alaska, without reimbursement, any property or interest in
    property, real or personal, situated in Alaska which is owned or
    held by the United States in connection with such function, the
    assumption of which function is pursuant to this Act or the Act of
    July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339) [set out as a note above].
      "(b) Structures and improvements of block 32 of the city of
    Juneau granted to the State of Alaska by section 6(c) of the Act
    providing for the admission of Alaska into the Union (72 Stat. 339,
    340), shall include all furnishings and equipment in the structure
    known as the Governor's mansion, or used in the operation or
    maintenance thereof. (As amended Pub. L. 88-311, Sec. 2, May 27,
    1964, 78 Stat. 201.)
      "Sec. 46. [Claims Commission.] (a) In the event that any disputes
    arise between the United States and the State of Alaska prior to
    January 1, 1965, concerning the transfer, conveyance, or other
    disposal of property to the State of Alaska pursuant to section
    6(e) of the Act of July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339, 340) [set out as a
    note above], providing for the admission of the State of Alaska
    into the Union, or pursuant to this Act, the President is
    authorized (1) to appoint by and with the advice and consent of the
    Senate a temporary commission of three persons, to consider,
    ascertain, adjust, determine, and settle such disputes, and (2) to
    make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to establish
    such temporary commission or as may be necessary to terminate such
    temporary commission at the conclusion of its duties. In carrying
    out its duties under this section, such commission may hold such
    hearings, take such testimony, sit and act at such times and
    places, and incur such expenditures as the commission deems
    necessary. No commission shall be appointed under authority of this
    subsection after June 30, 1965.
      "(b) The commission may, without regard to the civil service laws
    and the Classification Act of 1949, employ and fix the compensation
    of such employees as it deems necessary to carry out its duties
    under this section. The commission is authorized to use the
    facilities, information, and personnel of the departments,
    agencies, and establishments of the executive branch of the United
    States Government which it deems necessary to carry out its duties;
    and each such department, agency, and instrumentality is authorized
    to furnish such facilities, information, and personnel to the
    commission upon request made by the commission. The commission
    shall reimburse each such department, agency, or instrumentality
    for the services of any personnel utilized. The commission may
    establish such procedures, rules, and regulations as may be
    necessary to carry out its duties under this section.
      "(c) No member of such commission shall be an officer or employee
    of the United States or of the State of Alaska. Any commissioner
    may be removed by the President for inefficiency, neglect of duty,
    or malfeasance in office. A vacancy in the commission shall not
    impair the right of the remaining commissioners to exercise all the
    powers of the commission. Each member of the commission shall be
    paid compensation at the rate of $50 per day for each day spent in
    the work of the commission, shall be reimbursed for actual and
    necessary travel expenses, and shall receive a per diem allowance
    in accordance with the provisions of the Travel Expense Act of
    1949, as amended, when away from his usual place of residence.
      "(d) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as
    may be necessary to enable the commission to perform its duties
    under this section.
      "Sec. 47. [Effective dates.] (a) The amendments made by paragraph
    (2) of subsection (a) of section 18, by subsection (a) of section
    28, by paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of section 31, by
    subsections (a) and (b) of section 32, and, except as provided in
    subsection (c) of this section, by subsection (b) of section 24,
    shall be applicable in the case of promulgations of Federal shares,
    allotment percentages, allotment ratios, and Federal percentages,
    as the case may be, made after satisfactory data are available from
    the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income
    of Alaska, and for this purpose such promulgations shall, before
    such data for the full period required by the applicable statutory
    provision as so amended are available from the Department of
    Commerce, be based on satisfactory data available from such
    Department for such one full year or, when such data for a two-year
    period are available, for such two years.
      "(b) The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection
    (a) of section 18 shall be applicable, in the case of allotments
    under section 302(b) or 502 of the National Defense Education Act
    of 1958 [20 U.S.C. 442(b) or 482], for fiscal years beginning July
    1, 1959, and in the case of allotments under section 302(a) of such
    Act, in the case of allotments based on allotment ratios,
    promulgated under such section 302(a), to which the amendment made
    by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of section 18 of this Act is
    applicable.
      "(c) [Repealed. Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 47(g)(4), July 12, 1960, 74
    Stat. 424.]
      "(d) The amendments made by paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection
    (b), by subsection (c), and by paragraph (4) of subsection (d) of
    section 18; by subsection (a) of section 24; by subsection (b) of
    section 28; by subsection (a), by subparagraphs (2), (3), and (4)
    of subsection (b), and by paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of
    section 31; by paragraph (2) of subsection (c) and by subsection
    (d) of section 32; and, except as provided in subsection (b) of
    this section by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of section 18,
    shall be effective on January 3, 1959.
      "(e) The amendment made by paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of
    section 32 shall apply in the case of deaths occurring on or after
    January 3, 1959.
      "(f) The amendments made by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) and
    paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (d) of section 18 shall
    be applicable for fiscal years beginning July 1, 1959.
      "(g) The amendments in sections 40 and 42 shall take effect when
    enacted: Provided, however, That with respect to injuries or deaths
    occurring on or after January 3, 1959, and prior to the effective
    date of these amendments, claims filed by employees engaged in the
    State of Alaska in any of the employments covered by the Defense
    Base Act [42 U.S.C. 1651 et seq.] (and their dependents) may be
    adjudicated under the Workmen's Compensation Act of Alaska instead
    of the Defense Base Act. (As amended Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 47(g)(4),
    July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 424.)
      "Sec. 48. [Definition of 'Continental United States'.] Whenever
    the phrase 'continental United States' is used in any law of the
    United States enacted after the date of enactment of this Act, it
    shall mean the 49 States on the North American Continent and the
    District of Columbia, unless otherwise expressly provided.
      "Sec. 49. [Other subjects.] The amendment by this Act of certain
    statutes by deleting therefrom specific references to Alaska or
    such phrases as 'Territory of Alaska' shall not be construed to
    affect the applicability or inapplicability in or to Alaska of
    other statutes not so amended.
      "Sec. 50. [Separability.] If any provision of this Act, or the
    application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held
    invalid, the remainder of this Act, and the application of such
    provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected
    thereby.
      "Sec. 51. [New Federal Loan Adjustments.] (a) The Secretary of
    Agriculture is authorized to compromise or release such portion of
    a borrower's indebtedness under programs administered by the
    Farmers Home Administration in Alaska as he finds necessary because
    of loss resulting from the 1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic
    waves, and he may refinance outstanding indebtedness of applicants
    in Alaska for loans under section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949
    [42 U.S.C. 1472] for the repair, reconstruction, or replacement of
    dwellings or farm buildings lost, destroyed, or damaged by such
    causes and securing such outstanding indebtedness. Such loans may
    also provide for the purchase of building sites, when the original
    sites cannot be utilized.
      "(b) The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to compromise or
    release such portion of a borrower's indebtedness under programs
    administered by the Rural Electrification Administration in Alaska
    as he finds necessary because of loss, destruction, or damage of
    property resulting from the 1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic
    waves. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat. 505.)
      "Sec. 52. [Compromise or Release of Notes or Other Obligations.]
    The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development is authorized to
    compromise or release such portion of any note or other obligation
    held by him with respect to property in Alaska pursuant to Title II
    of the Housing Amendments of 1955 [42 U.S.C. 1491-1497] or included
    within the revolving fund for liquidating programs established by
    the Independent Offices Appropriation Act of 1955, as he finds
    necessary because of loss, destruction, or damage to facilities
    securing such obligations by the 1964 earthquake and subsequent
    seismic waves. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4, Aug. 19, 1964, 78
    Stat. 506, and amended Pub. L. 90-19, Sec. 15(a), May 25, 1967, 81
    Stat. 24.)
      "Sec. 53. [Urban Renewal.] The Secretary of Housing and Urban
    Development is authorized to enter into contracts for grants not
    exceeding $25,000,000 for urban renewal projects in Alaska,
    including open land projects, under section 111 of the Housing Act
    of 1949 [42 U.S.C. 1462], which he determines will aid the
    communities in which they are located in reconstruction and
    redevelopment made necessary by the 1964 earthquake and subsequent
    seismic waves. Such authorization shall be in addition to and
    separate from any grant authorization contained in section 103(b)
    of said Act [42 U.S.C. 1453(b)].
      "The Secretary may increase the capital grant for a project
    assisted under this section to not more than 90 per centum of net
    project cost where he determines that a major portion of the
    project area has either been rendered unusable as a result of the
    1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic waves or is needed in order
    adequately to provide, in accordance with the urban renewal plan
    for the project, new locations for persons, businesses, and
    facilities displaced by the earthquake. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec.
    4, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat. 506, and amended Pub. L. 90-19, Sec. 15,
    May 25, 1967, 81 Stat. 24.)
      "Sec. 54. [Extension of Term of Home Disaster Loans.] Loans made
    pursuant to paragraph (1) of section 7(b) of the Small Business Act
    (72 Stat. 387), as amended (15 U.S.C. 636(b)), for the purpose of
    replacing, reconstructing, or repairing dwellings in Alaska damaged
    or destroyed by the 1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic waves,
    may have a maturity of up to thirty years: Provided, That the
    provisions of section 7(c) of said Act [15 U.S.C. 636(c)] shall not
    be applicable to such loans. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4, Aug.
    19, 1964, 78 Stat. 506.)
      "Sec. 55. [Modification of Civil Works Projects.] The Chief of
    Engineers, under the direction of the Secretary of the Army, is
    hereby authorized to make such modifications to previously
    authorized civil works projects in Alaska adversely affected by the
    1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic waves as he finds necessary
    to meet changed conditions and to provide for current and
    reasonably prospective requirements of the communities they serve,
    at an estimated cost of $10,000,000. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4,
    Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat. 506.)
      "Sec. 56. [Purchase of Alaska State Bonds.] The Secretary of
    Housing and Urban Development is authorized to purchase, in
    accordance with the provisions of sections 202(b), 203, and 204 of
    Title II of the Housing Amendments of 1955 [42 U.S.C. 1492(b),
    1493, and 1494], the securities and obligations of, or make loans
    to, the State of Alaska to finance any part of the programs needed
    to carry out the reconstruction activities in Alaska related to the
    1964 earthquake and subsequent seismic waves or to complete capital
    improvements begun prior to the earthquake: Provided, That the
    aggregate amount of such purchase or loan shall not exceed
    $25,000,000. (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat.
    506, and amended Pub. L. 90-19, Sec. 15(a), May 25, 1967, 81 Stat.
    24.)
      "Sec. 57. [Retirement or Adjustment of Outstanding Mortgage
    Obligation.] For the purpose of enabling the State of Alaska to
    retire or adjust outstanding home mortgage obligations or other
    real property liens secured by one to four family homes which were
    severely damaged or destroyed in the March 1964 earthquake and
    subsequent seismic waves, the President is authorized to make
    additional grants to the State of Alaska in an amount not to exceed
    a total of $5,500,000 to match, on a fifty-fifty basis, any funds
    provided by the State to pay the costs of retiring or adjusting
    such mortgage obligations. In order to be approved, a State
    application for a grant for carrying out the purpose of this
    section must: (1) be in accordance with a plan submitted by the
    State, to be approved by the President, for the implementation of
    the purpose of this section; (2) designate the State agency for
    retiring or adjusting said mortgage obligations; (3) provide that
    the mortgagor shall be required to absorb the damage loss to the
    entire extent of his equity interest in the property and also agree
    to pay at least $1,000 of the outstanding mortgage balance; (4)
    provide that no payments for retiring or adjusting mortgage
    obligations on a single property shall exceed $30,000; (5) provide
    regulations to assure equitable treatment among home owners and to
    prevent unjustified payments or gains to the State, mortgagees or
    mortgagors; and (6) provide that the State agency will make such
    reports, in such form and containing such information as the
    President may from time to time require, and give the President,
    upon demand, access to the records on which such reports are
    based." (Added Pub. L. 88-451, Sec. 4, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat.
    507.)

        ASSISTANCE TO ALASKA FOR RECONSTRUCTION OF AREAS DAMAGED BY
                                EARTHQUAKE
      Pub. L. 88-451, Aug. 19, 1964, 78 Stat. 505, as amended,
    provided:
      "[Section 1. Short Title.] That this Act may be cited as the
    '1964 Amendments to the Alaska Omnibus Act.'
      "Sec. 2. [Congressional Declaration.] The Congress hereby
    recognizes that the State of Alaska has experienced extensive
    property loss and damage as a result of the earthquake of March 27,
    1964, and subsequent seismic waves, and declares the need for
    special measures designed to aid and accelerate the State's efforts
    in providing for the reconstruction of the areas in the State
    devastated by this natural disaster.
      "Sec. 3. [This section added subsec. (f) to section 21 of the
    Alaska Omnibus Act, Pub. L. 86-70, June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 141, set
    out above.]
      "Sec. 4. [This section added sections 51 to 57 to the Alaska
    Omnibus Act, Pub. L. 86-70, June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 141, set out
    above.]
      "Sec. 5. [Authorization of Appropriations.] There is authorized
    to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
    provisions of this Act, which shall be available for obligation
    until June 30, 1967, except that any sums so appropriated to carry
    out section 53 of the Alaska Omnibus Act [set out above] shall be
    available after such date for obligation in connection with one or
    more of the following urban renewal projects authorized for
    execution prior to June 30, 1967; Alaska R-8, Westchester; Alaska R-
    19, Kodiak; Alaska R-20, downtown Anchorage; Alaska R-21, Seward;
    Alaska R-22, Valdez; Alaska R-25, Mineral Creek; Alaska R-26,
    Seldovia; Alaska R-28, Cordova. There is also authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the expenses of such
    advisory commissions or committees as the President may establish
    in connection with the reconstruction and development planning of
    the State of Alaska. The total amount authorized to be appropriated
    pursuant to this section shall not exceed $55,650,000. (As amended
    Pub. L. 91-367, Sec. 1, July 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 691.)
      "Sec. 6. [Termination Date.] The authority contained in this Act
    shall expire on June 30, 1967, except that such expiration shall
    not affect - 
        "(1) the authority conferred by section 53 of the Alaska
      Omnibus Act [set out above] until the completion of the following
      urban renewal projects authorized for execution prior to June 30,
      1967: Alaska R-8, Westchester; Alaska R-19, Kodiak; Alaska R-20,
      downtown Anchorage; Alaska R-21, Seward; Alaska R-22, Valdez;
      Alaska R-25, Mineral Creek; Alaska R-26, Seldovia; Alaska R-28,
      Cordova; or
        "(2) the payment of expenditures for any obligation or
      commitment entered into under this Act prior to June 30, 1967.
    (As amended Pub. L. 91-367, Sec. 2, July 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 691.)
      "Sec. 7. [Report to the Congress.] The President shall report
    semiannually during the term of this Act to the President of the
    Senate and the Speaker of the House on the actions taken under this
    Act by the various Federal agencies. The first such report shall be
    submitted not later than February 1, 1965, and shall cover the
    period ending December 31, 1964."


-TRANS-
                          DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS                      
      Ex. Ord. No. 11230, under which the functions of the President
    under sections 44(a) and 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act of June
    25, 1959, set out above, were delegated to the Director of the
    Bureau of the Budget [now the Director of Management and Budget],
    was superseded by Ex. Ord. No. 11609, eff. July 22, 1971, 36 F.R.
    13747, set out under section 301 of Title 3.


-MISC2-
                  UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF ALASKA              
      Readiness of United States District Court for District of Alaska
    to assume functions imposed upon it, see Ex. Ord. No. 10867, eff.
    Feb. 20, 1960, 25 F.R. 1584, set out under section 81A of Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-EXEC-
      PROC. NO. 3269. ADMISSION OF THE STATE OF ALASKA INTO THE UNION  
      Proc. No. 3269, eff. Jan. 3, 1959, 24 F.R. 81, 73 Stat. c16,
    provided:
      WHEREAS the Congress of the United States by the act approved on
    July 7, 1958 (72 Stat. 339) [set out above], accepted, ratified,
    and confirmed the constitution adopted by a vote of the people of
    Alaska in an election held on April 24, 1956, and provided for the
    admission of the State of Alaska into the Union on an equal footing
    with the other States of the Union upon compliance with certain
    procedural requirements specified in that act; and
      WHEREAS it appears from information before me that a majority of
    the legal votes cast at an election held on August 26, 1958, were
    in favor of each of the propositions required to be submitted to
    the people of Alaska by section 8(b) of the Act of July 7, 1958
    [set out above]; and
      WHEREAS it further appears from information before me that a
    general election was held on November 25, 1958, and that the
    returns of the general election were made and certified as provided
    in the act of July 7, 1958; and
      WHEREAS the Acting Governor of Alaska has certified to me the
    results of the submission to the people of Alaska of the three
    propositions set forth in section 8(b) of the act of July 7, 1958
    [set out above], and the results of the general election; and
      WHEREAS I find and announce that the people of Alaska have duly
    adopted the propositions required to be submitted to them by the
    act of July 7, 1958 [set out above], and have duly elected the
    officers required to be elected by that act:
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, President of the United
    States of America, do hereby declare and proclaim that the
    procedural requirements imposed by the Congress on the State of
    Alaska to entitle that State to admission into the Union have been
    complied with in all respects and that admission of the State of
    Alaska into the Union on an equal footing with the other States of
    the Union is now accomplished.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
    Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
     DONE at the City of Washington at one minute past noon on this
          third day of January in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
          and fifty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States
          of America the one hundred and eighty-third.

                                                   Dwight D. Eisenhower.
    [seal]

    EX. ORD. NO. 10857. TERMINATION OF FEDERAL FUNCTIONS IN ALASKA AND
                TRANSFER OF PROPERTY HELD BY UNITED STATES
      Ex. Ord. No. 10857, eff. Dec. 29, 1959, 25 F.R. 33, provided:
      WHEREAS section 6(e) of the act of July 7, 1958, 72 Stat. 339, as
    amended [set out as a note above], provides that the administration
    and management of the fish and wildlife resources of Alaska shall
    be transferred to the State of Alaska on the first day of the first
    calendar year following the expiration of ninety calendar days
    after the Secretary of the Interior certifies to the Congress that
    the Alaska State Legislature has made adequate provision for the
    administration, management, and conservation of such resources in
    the broad national interest; and
      WHEREAS the Secretary of the Interior made such certification to
    the Congress on April 27, 1959; and
      WHEREAS section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act (73 Stat. 152)
    [set out as a note above] provides that if the President determines
    that any function performed by the Federal Government in Alaska has
    been terminated by the Federal Government and that performance of
    such function or substantially the same function has been or will
    be assumed by the State of Alaska, the President may, until July 1,
    1964, in his discretion, transfer and convey to the State of
    Alaska, without reimbursement, any property or interest in
    property, real or personal, situated in Alaska which is owned or
    held by the United States in connection with such function; and
      WHEREAS it appears that it would be in the public interest to
    delegate to the Secretary of the Interior, to the extent
    hereinafter indicated, the authority vested in the President by
    section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act:
      NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by
    section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act (73 Stat. 152) and section
    301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the
    United States, it is ordered as follows:
      Section 1. It is hereby determined that the functions performed
    by the United States in Alaska pursuant to the Alaska game law of
    July 1, 1943, 57 Stat. 301 [sections 192, 193, and 195 to 211 of
    this title], the act of June 26, 1906, 34 Stat. 478, the act of
    June 6, 1924, 43 Stat. 465, and the acts amending or supplementing
    such acts, will terminate on December 31, 1959, and that the same
    functions or substantially the same functions will be assumed by
    the State of Alaska.
      Sec. 2. There is hereby delegated to the Secretary of the
    Interior, effective January 1, 1960, the authority vested in the
    President by section 45(a) of the Alaska Omnibus Act to transfer
    and convey to the State of Alaska, without reimbursement, any
    property or interest in property, real or personal, situated in
    Alaska which is owned or held by the United States in connection
    with the functions described in section 1 hereof.
      Sec. 3. The Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized to
    redelegate to (1) the Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife,
    (2) the Commissioner of Fish and Wildlife, (3) the Directors of the
    Bureaus of Commercial Fisheries and Sport Fisheries and Wildlife,
    and (4) the Regional Directors, Alaska Region, of the Bureaus of
    Commercial Fisheries and Sport Fisheries and Wildlife all or any
    part of the authority delegated to the Secretary of the Interior by
    section 2 hereof.
      Sec. 4. All transfers and conveyances made under or pursuant to
    this order shall be made in accordance with such policies,
    conditions, and procedures as may be prescribed by the Secretary of
    the Interior.

                                                   Dwight D. Eisenhower.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "48 U.S.C.".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 21 to 27                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 21 to 27. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 21 to 27, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 21, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 512,
    provided for organization and administration of Territory of
    Alaska.
      Section 22, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 2, 37 Stat. 512,
    directed that Capital of Territory be at Juneau.
      Section 23, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 3, 37 Stat. 512,
    extended Constitution and laws of United States to Territory.
      Section 24, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 3, 37 Stat. 512;
    July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec. 301(c), 70 Stat. 713,
    limited authority of Territorial legislature to repeal or amend
    existing laws.
      Section 25, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 30, 31 Stat. 332,
    empowered Attorney General to prescribe fees of officers not
    otherwise compensated.
      Section 26, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 321,
    authorized governor to appoint notaries public.
      Section 27, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 321,
    validated appointments of notaries public made prior to June 6,
    1900.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 28                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 28. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 28. Repealed. Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029.
      Section, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 17, 31 Stat. 328,
    related to residence, term of office, and removal from office of
    notaries public.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 29 to 38                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 29 to 38. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 29 to 38, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 29, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Secs. 22, 23, 31 Stat.
    329, related to official bonds of notaries public.
      Section 30, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 32, 31 Stat. 333;
    Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029, prescribed fee for
    issuance of notary public commission.
      Section 31, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 18, 31 Stat. 328,
    related to duties of notaries public.
      Section 32, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 19, 31 Stat. 329,
    provided for protests of bills or notes by notaries public.
      Section 33, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 24, 31 Stat. 329,
    related to liability of notaries public for misconduct or neglect.
      Section 34, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 20, 31 Stat. 329,
    directed notaries to deposit their records with district court on
    resignation, removal or death.
      Section 35, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 21, 31 Stat. 329,
    related to duty of clerk in safe-keeping records deposited.
      Section 35a, acts Aug. 5, 1939, ch. 480, Sec. 1, 53 Stat. 1219;
    Dec. 11, 1945, ch. 563, 59 Stat. 605, empowered postmasters to act
    as notaries public.
      Section 35b, acts Aug. 5, 1939, ch. 480, Sec. 2, 53 Stat. 1219;
    Dec. 11, 1945, ch. 563, 59 Stat. 606, provided for signature and
    seal of postmasters acting as notaries.
      Section 35c, act Aug. 5, 1939, ch. 480, Sec. 3, 53 Stat. 1219,
    related to fees of postmasters acting as notaries.
       Section 36, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 32, 31 Stat. 333;
    Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029, prescribed fee for
    certificates issued to members of bar authorizing them to practice
    law.
      Section 37, act June 11, 1896, ch. 420, Sec. 1, 29 Stat. 413,
    empowered Secretary of the Treasury to fix rates of dockage and
    wharfage to be paid for use of wharf at Sitka.
      Section 38, act Jan. 3, 1923, ch. 22, 42 Stat. 1106, related to
    repairs to wharf at Sitka.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 39                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 39. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 39. Repealed. Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, Sec. 1(118)-(124), 65
      Stat. 706.
      Section, acts Mar. 4, 1907, ch. 2918, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 1338; May
    24, 1922, ch. 199, 42 Stat. 584; Jan. 24, 1923, ch. 42, 42 Stat.
    1205; June 5, 1924, ch. 264, 43 Stat. 427; Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462,
    43 Stat. 1181; May 10, 1926, ch. 277, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 492; Jan.
    12, 1927, ch. 27, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 968, related to handling and
    disposition of reindeer in Alaska.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 40, 41                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 40, 41. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 40 and 41, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 40, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 31, 31 Stat. 332,
    related to court rooms and offices of civil government.
      Section 41, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 192; Feb. 6, 1909, ch. 80,
    Sec. 7, 35 Stat. 601; Mar. 3, 1913, ch. 109, 37 Stat. 728, related
    to deposits to Alaska fund in Treasury Department.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 42                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 42. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 42. Repealed. Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029.
      Section, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 32, 31 Stat. 333; Mar.
    3, 1905, ch. 1497, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 1266, provided for
    disbursements to Alaska Historical Library and Museum and
    prescribed contents thereof.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 43 to 45                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 43 to 45. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 43 to 45, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 43, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 33, 31 Stat. 333;
    Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029, designated Alaska
    Historical Library and Museum as a depository of Government
    publications.
      Section 44, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 514;
    June 3, 1948, ch. 396, 62 Stat. 302, limited amount of taxes that
    could be levied by incorporated towns or municipalities.
      Section 44a, act May 28, 1936, ch. 467, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1388,
    related to bonded indebtedness of municipalities for public works.
      Section 44b, acts May 28, 1936, ch. 467, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1388;
    June 14, 1937, ch. 337, 50 Stat. 258, related to approval by
    electors of bonded indebtedness incurred by municipal corporation.
      Section 44c, act May 28, 1936, ch. 467, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 1388,
    provided for issuance, sale and redemption, and interest rates of
    bonds.
      Section 44d, act May 28, 1936, ch. 467, Sec. 4, 49 Stat. 1389,
    authorized tax levies for payment of bonds.
      Section 44e, act May 28, 1936, ch. 467, Sec. 5, 49 Stat. 1389,
    repealed conflicting laws.
      Section 44f, act Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 52, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 33,
    authorized bonds for public works by municipalities and public
    utility districts.
      Section 44g, act Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 52, Sec. 2, 60 Stat. 33,
    related to issuance, sale and redemption, and interest rates on
    bonds for public works.
      Section 44h, act Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 52, Sec. 3, 60 Stat. 34,
    related to covenants in bonds issue for public works.
      Section 44i, act Mar. 6, 1946, ch. 52, Sec. 4, 60 Stat. 34,
    repealed laws inconsistent with sections 44f to 44i of this title.
      Section 45, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 514,
    prescribed residence qualifications for divorce actions.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 46                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 46. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 46. Repealed. July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec.
      301(a)(2), 70 Stat. 712.
      Section, acts Feb. 6, 1909, ch. 80, Sec. 7, 35 Stat. 601; Oct.
    14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 2, 56 Stat. 782; July 28, 1956, ch. 722,
    title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712, authorized Governor of
    Alaska or his designee to contract for care and custody of insane
    persons.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 46-1 to 46-3                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 46-1 to 46-3. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 46-1 to 46-3, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 46-1, act July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title I, Sec. 101, 70
    Stat. 709, authorized territorial legislature to enact laws on
    subject of mental health.
      Section 46-2, act July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title I, Sec. 102, 70
    Stat. 709, related to jurisdiction, functions and duties of
    commissioners and courts in carrying out section 46-1 of this
    title.
      Section 46-3, act July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title II, Sec. 202, 70
    Stat. 711, prescribed a land-grant program for purpose of section
    46-1 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 46a                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 46a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 46a. Repealed. July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title VII, Sec. 711,
      formerly title VI, Sec. 611, 58 Stat. 714; renumbered Aug. 13,
      1946, ch. 958, Sec. 5, 60 Stat. 1049.
      Section, act Mar. 4, 1929, ch. 707, 45 Stat. 1644, provided for
    detailing of a Public Health Service medical officer to supervise
    care and maintenance of insane in Alaska and payment of his
    compensation and expenses.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 46b to 48a                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 46b to 48a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 46b to 48a. Repealed. July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec.
      301(a)(1), (3), (5), 70 Stat. 712.
      Section 46b, act June 25, 1910, ch. 424, Sec. 1, 36 Stat. 852,
    established detention hospitals at Fairbanks and Nome for temporary
    care and detention of insane.
      Section 46c, acts Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 782;
    July 28, 1956, ch, 772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712,
    defined terms used in sections 46, 47a to 47c, 48a, 50, and 50a of
    this title.
      Section 47, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 8, 33 Stat. 619,
    related to commitment of insane in Alaska, provided for
    compensation of commissioners, jurors, and witnesses, and
    prescribed method of payment of compensation, mileage, fees, and
    other expenses.
      Section 47a, act Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 3, 56 Stat. 783,
    related to custody, use, and return of money and personal property
    of committed persons.
      Section 47b, acts Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 6, 56 Stat. 783;
    July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712,
    related to discharge of patients from mental institutions,
    permitted leaves of absences to patients, and required issuance of
    suitable clothing upon discharge.
      Section 47c, acts Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 7, 56 Stat. 784;
    July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712,
    authorized superintendent of any mental institution to board
    patients with private families, provided for inspection, and
    empowered superintendent to remove patients from boarding places.
      Section 48, acts Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 9, 56 Stat. 785;
    July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712,
    provided for a statement of legal residence of insane persons in
    commitment papers, required return of nonresident patients, and for
    payment of expenses in connection with such return.
      Section 48a, acts Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 9, 56 Stat. 785;
    July 21, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712,
    required payment of expenses of care by patient, his legal
    representative, spouse, parents, or adult children.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 49                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 49. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Jan. 12, 1927, ch. 27, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 968, which
    provided for admission to hospitals in the Territory of Alaska was
    omitted in view of the admission of Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 50, 50a                                        02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 50, 50a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 50, 50a. Repealed. July 28, 1956, ch. 772, title III, Sec.
      301(a)(4), 70 Stat. 712.
      Section 50, acts Apr. 24, 1926, ch. 177, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 322;
    Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 4, 56 Stat. 783; July 28, 1956, ch.
    772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712, related to
    disposition of unclaimed funds of insane persons.
      Section 50a, acts Apr. 24, 1926, ch. 177, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 322;
    Oct. 14, 1942, ch. 601, Sec. 5, 56 Stat. 783; July 28, 1956, ch.
    772, title III, Sec. 301(b)(1), 70 Stat. 712, related to funds
    which were subject to such claims.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 50b to 50d-1                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 50b to 50d-1. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 50b to 50d-1, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 50b, act Mar. 7, 1928, ch. 137, Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 239,
    authorized Secretary of the Interior to accept donations for
    school, medical, and reindeer service.
      Section 50c, act May 14, 1930, ch. 273, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 321,
    related to availability of appropriations for education, medical
    relief, and reindeer.
      Section 50d, act May 9, 1938, ch. 187, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 311,
    empowered Secretary of the Interior to authorize officers to incur
    obligations for benefit of natives prior to appropriation.
      Section 50d-1, act June 1, 1944, ch. 220, Sec. 1, 58 Stat. 266,
    empowered Secretary to authorize officers to incur obligations for
    benefit of natives in excess of current appropriations.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 50e                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 50e. Appropriations for benefit of natives; purchase of
      supplies for resale to natives, cooperatives, and Department
      employees

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to purchase from
    appropriations made for the benefit of natives of Alaska, food,
    clothing, supplies, and materials for resale, under such rules and
    regulations as he may prescribe, to employees of the Department of
    the Interior stationed in Alaska and to natives of Alaska and
    native cooperative associations under his supervision. The proceeds
    from such sales shall be credited to the appropriation or
    appropriations current at the date of the deposit thereof into the
    Treasury and shall be available for the same purposes.

-SOURCE-
    (Feb. 20, 1942, ch. 96, 56 Stat. 95.)


-MISC1-
                       ALASKA RESUPPLY PROGRAM FUND                   
      Pub. L. 102-154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1007, provided
    that: "Beginning October 1, 1991, and thereafter, amounts collected
    by the Secretary in connection with the Alaska Resupply Program
    (Public Law 77-457) [48 U.S.C. 50e] shall be deposited into a
    special fund to be established in the Treasury, to be available to
    carry out the provisions of the Alaska Resupply Program, such
    amounts to remain available until expended: Provided, That
    unobligated balances of amounts collected in fiscal year 1991 and
    credited to the Operation of Indian Programs account as offsetting
    collections, shall be transferred and credited to this account."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 50f                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 50f. Disposal of miscellaneous revenues from schools,
      hospitals, and other Indian Service facilities

-STATUTE-
      After February 20, 1942, miscellaneous revenues derived from
    schools, hospitals, and other facilities maintained and operated by
    the Indian Service for the benefit of Indians and natives of Alaska
    shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States under the
    provisions of section 155 of title 25.

-SOURCE-
    (Feb. 20, 1942, ch. 98, 56 Stat. 95.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 50g to 58                                      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 50g to 58. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 50g to 58, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 50g, act Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 883, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 939,
    related to facilities at Alaska-Canadian border.
      Section 50h, act Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 883, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 939,
    required site selected under section 50g of this title to consist
    of lands owned or controlled by the United States.
      Section 50i, act Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 883, Sec. 3, 7 Stat. 939,
    provided for arrangements for use of sites and facilities.
      Section 50j, act Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 883, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 940,
    authorized appropriations for purposes of sections 50g to 50j of
    this title.
      Section 51, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 1392,
    related to educational qualifications of voters and electors.
      Section 52, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 1393,
    provided that inability to read and write was a ground for
    challenge at polls.
      Section 53, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1393,
    related to manner of proving ability to read and write.
      Section 54, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 4, 44 Stat. 1393,
    related to exemption from provisions of section 51 of this title by
    reason of physical disability.
      Section 55, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 5, 44 Stat. 1393,
    authorized election judges to mark ballots for voters physically
    incapable of marking ballots.
      Section 56, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 6, 44 Stat. 1393,
    provided that persons refused permission to vote shall not make any
    further attempt to vote.
      Section 57, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 7, 44 Stat. 1394,
    enumerated qualifications requisite to voting.
      Section 58, act Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 8, 44 Stat. 1394,
    prescribed penalties for violation of sections 51 to 57 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 61 to 64                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 61 to 64. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 61 to 64, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 61, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 321; May
    29, 1928, ch. 901, Sec. 1(109), 45 Stat. 994; July 25, 1947, ch.
    332, Sec. 1, 61 Stat. 459, authorized appointment of a Governor for
    Territory, and detailed his duties.
      Section 62, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1181; Mar. 4, 1931, ch. 516, 46
    Stat. 1530; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 13, 62 Stat. 987; Oct. 15,
    1949, ch. 695, Sec. 5(a), 63 Stat. 880, related to appointment of
    Governor and his compensation. Acts Mar. 3, 1925, Mar. 4, 1931, and
    Oct. 15, 1949, were repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6,
    1966, 80 Stat. 646, 648, 655.
      Section 63, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 13, 62 Stat. 987, related to expenses
    of Governor.
      Section 64, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 321,
    directed Governor to make an annual report to President, and
    empowered the President to confirm or annul acts of Governor.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 65                                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 65. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 65. Repealed. Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029.
      Section, act Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1497, Sec. 3, 33 Stat. 1266,
    required bond from Secretary of Territory.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 65a                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 65a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 65a. Repealed. Apr. 3, 1944, ch. 155, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 187.
      Section, act Mar. 4, 1931, ch. 516, 46 Stat. 1530, related to
    salary of secretary of Territory.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 65b, 66                                        02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 65b, 66. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 65b, 66, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 65b, act Apr. 3, 1944, ch. 155, Sec. 1, 58 Stat. 187,
    prescribed salary of secretary of Territory.
      Section 66, act Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1497, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 1265,
    related to fees of secretary of Territory.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 67 to 72                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 67 to 72. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 67 to 72. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966,
      80 Stat. 642.
      Section 67, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1016, provided that
    legislative power and authority of Territory shall be vested in a
    Senate and a House of Representatives.
      Section 68, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1016, related to
    membership of Senate and terms of office of Senators.
      Section 69, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1016, related to
    membership of House of Representatives.
      Section 69a, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, as added Nov.
    13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1017, provided for
    establishment and adjustment of legislative districts.
      Section 70, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1017, prescribed election
    procedure for senators and representatives.
      Section 71, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1018, required Governor to
    order elections to fill vacancies in legislature.
      Section 72, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 513;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 1018, prescribed salaries
    and mileage of members of legislature.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 73, 73a                                        02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 73, 73a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 73 and 73a, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 73, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 513;
    Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 363, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 1392; Mar. 26, 1934, ch.
    86, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 465, specified time of election of members of
    the legislature.
      Section 73a, act Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 86, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 466,
    empowered legislature to change date of elections.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 74, 75                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 74, 75. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 74, 75. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966,
      80 Stat. 642.
      Section 74, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 6, 37 Stat. 514;
    Apr. 18, 1940, ch. 105, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 111, related to convening
    of legislature, length of session, and extraordinary sessions.
      Section 75, acts June 19, 1878, ch. 329, Sec. 1, 20 Stat. 193;
    Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 514; Nov. 13, 1942, ch.
    637, Sec. 2, 56 Stat. 1018, related to organization of legislature,
    election of president of Senate and Speaker of House and
    subordinate officers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 76 to 92                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 76 to 92. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 76 to 92, relating to Territory of Alaska, were omitted
    in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 76, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 514,
    specified enacting clause of all laws, and provided that no law
    shall embrace more than one subject.
      Section 77, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 514;
    Apr. 13, 1934, ch. 119, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 583; June 3, 1948, ch.
    396, 62 Stat. 302, detailed general legislative power and
    limitation.
      Section 78, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 514;
    June 3, 1948, ch. 396, 62 Stat. 302, required all taxes to be
    uniform.
      Section 79, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 514;
    June 3, 1948, ch. 396, 62 Stat. 302, limited amount of taxes for
    Territorial purposes.
      Section 80, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 3, 37 Stat. 512,
    prohibited legislature from passing laws depriving judges,
    officers, etc. of district court of authority or jurisdiction.
      Section 81, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 10, 37 Stat. 515,
    related to rules of legislature, quorum and majority.
      Section 82, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 11, 37 Stat. 516,
    prohibited members of legislature from holding other office.
      Section 83, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 11, 37 Stat. 516,
    prohibited persons holding appointment under the United States from
    being members of legislature or holding other Territorial office.
      Section 84, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 12, 37 Stat. 516,
    specified exemptions and privileges of members of legislature.
      Section 85, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 13, 37 Stat. 516,
    described manner of passage of laws.
      Section 86, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 14, 37 Stat. 516,
    related to veto power of governor.
      Section 87, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 15, 37 Stat. 516;
    Nov. 13, 1942, ch. 637, Sec. 3, 56 Stat. 1018, provided for
    legislative expenses.
      Section 88, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 16, 37 Stat. 517,
    directed transmission of copies of law to the President and
    Secretary of State.
      Section 89, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 16, 37 Stat. 517,
    required legislature to make provision for printing of laws and
    distribution in Territory.
      Section 90, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 20, 37 Stat. 518,
    required all Territorial laws to be submitted to Congress.
      Section 91, act Aug. 29, 1914, ch. 292, 38 Stat. 710, related to
    powers of courts and legislature.
      Section 92, act Feb. 18, 1929, ch. 260, 45 Stat. 1228, directed
    all appropriations by legislature to be in conformity with sections
    23, 24, 67 to 73, and 74 to 90 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 101 to 122                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 101 to 122. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 101 to 122, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 101, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 4, 31 Stat. 322;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 2, 35 Stat. 839; Mar. 2, 1921, ch. 110,
    41 Stat. 1203; Dec. 13, 1926, ch. 6, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 919; July 31,
    1946, ch. 704, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 716; June 1, 1948, ch. 363, 62
    Stat. 283; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 9, 62 Stat. 986; Aug. 23,
    1954, ch. 836, Secs. 1, 2, 68 Stat. 772; Mar. 2, 1955, ch. 9, Sec.
    1(g), 69 Stat. 10; Aug. 1, 1955, ch. 443, 69 Stat. 430, established
    a district court for the District of Alaska and provided for its
    judges and divisions.
      Section 101a was from a sentence added to R.S. Sec. 5296 by act
    May 24, 1935, ch. 142, 49 Stat. 289. R.S. Sec. 5296 was
    subsequently amended in full by act June 29, 1940, ch. 499, Sec. 4,
    54 Stat. 692, which failed to include provisions on the subject of
    that sentence or to refer to the 1935 amendment adding it. That
    sentence provided as follows: "The District Court of the Territory
    of Alaska shall be deemed a court of the United States, and the
    commissioners appointed by the judges of the said District Court of
    the Territory of Alaska under the provisions of title I, chapter 1,
    section 6, of the act of June 6, 1900 (31 Stat. 323, 324 [sections
    104 and 108 of this title]), shall be deemed commissioners of a
    United States court, within the intent and meaning of this section
    [former section 641 of title 18]."
      Section 102, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 4, 31 Stat. 322;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 2, 35 Stat. 839; Mar. 2, 1921, ch. 110,
    41 Stat. 1203; Nov. 22, 1943, ch. 304, 57 Stat. 591, provided for
    terms of court, special terms, and employment of interpreters.
      Section 103, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 5, 31 Stat. 323,
    specified the jurisdiction of the divisions of court, and provided
    for change of venue.
      Section 103a, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 5a, as added July
    18, 1949, ch. 343, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 445, made Federal Rules of
    Civil Procedure applicable to district court of Territory.
      Section 104, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 6, 31 Stat. 323,
    authorized appointment of clerks and commissioners.
      Section 104a, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 6, as added Apr.
    13, 1954, ch. 136, 68 Stat. 52, authorized appointment of Deputy
    Commissioners, provided for their compensation, prescribed their
    powers and duties, and required the posting of a bond.
      Section 105, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 12, 31 Stat. 326;
    June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Secs. 1, 39, 62 Stat. 914, 926, 927, 996,
    required clerks and commissioners to post bonds.
      Section 106, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 7, 31 Stat. 324;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 3, 35 Stat. 840; June 13, 1940, ch.
    350, 54 Stat. 384; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 10, 62 Stat. 987,
    detailed duties of clerk.
      Section 107, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Secs. 13, 39, 62 Stat. 987, related to
    clerk's fees, accounts, and clerical help.
      Section 108, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 6, 31 Stat. 323,
    directed that commissioners shall be ex officio justices of the
    peace, empowered them to grant writs of habeas corpus, and
    prescribed other powers and duties.
      Section 109, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 8, 31 Stat. 324;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 4, 35 Stat. 841; June 25, 1948, ch.
    646, Sec. 11, 62 Stat. 987, authorized appointment of district
    attorneys, specified residence requirements and prescribed their
    duties and salaries.
      Section 110, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Secs. 9, 10, 31 Stat.
    324, 325; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Secs. 12, 39, 62 Stat. 987, 992,
    authorized appointment of marshals and deputies and prescribed
    their duties and powers.
      Section 111, acts Mar. 3, 1899, ch. 429, Sec. 459, 30 Stat. 1336;
    Jan. 22, 1902, ch. 3, 32 Stat. 2, provided for increases in
    marshal's bond.
      Section 112, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 13, 62 Stat. 987, authorized
    appointment of attorneys, judges, and marshals.
      Section 113, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 13, 62 Stat. 987, provided for manner
    of payment of salaries of judges, marshals, clerks, and district
    attorneys.
      Section 114, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 325;
    Apr. 6, 1914, ch. 52, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 318; June 25, 1948, ch. 646,
    Sec. 13, 62 Stat. 987, authorized traveling expenses.
      Section 115, act Jan. 3, 1923, ch. 21, title II, 42 Stat. 1083,
    directed Attorney General to pay office expenses of United States
    marshals.
      Section 116, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 11, 31 Stat. 326;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 5, 35 Stat. 841, required preparation
    of accounts of fees and expenses.
      Section 116a, acts Mar. 15, 1948, ch. 121, 62 Stat. 80; July 12,
    1952, ch. 701, 66 Stat. 592; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 864, 70 Stat. 921,
    related to fees of commissioners.
      Section 117, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 13, 31 Stat. 326,
    authorized establishment of recording districts, their modification
    or discontinuance, and removal of commissioner.
      Section 118, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 14, 31 Stat. 327,
    required keeping of record books and prescribed duties of
    recorders.
      Section 119, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 15 (part), 31 Stat.
    327, specified instruments to be recorded.
      Section 120, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 16 (part), 31 Stat.
    328, required accounts for fees for instruments recorded.
      Section 121, act Aug. 29, 1914, ch. 292, 38 Stat. 710, provided
    for payment of costs of prosecuting crimes under Alaskan laws.
      Section 122, act Apr. 11, 1928, ch. 353, 45 Stat. 422, exempted
    Territory from posting bond or undertaking in legal proceedings.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 131                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 131. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 169, which
    provided for a Delegate in the House of Representatives of the
    United States and prescribed his qualifications, was omitted in
    view of the admission of Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 132, 134                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 132, 134. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 132, 134. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 8, 1966,
      80 Stat. 640.
      Section 132, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 170,
    prescribed term of office of Delegate to Congress.
      Section 134, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 170,
    specified salary and allowances of Delegate.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 135 to 149                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 135 to 149. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 135 to 149, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 135, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 3, 34 Stat. 170,
    provided for election of Delegate to Congress.
      Section 136, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 4, 34 Stat. 170,
    related to election districts in towns.
      Section 137, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 5, 34 Stat. 171,
    related to election districts outside of towns.
      Section 138, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 6, 34 Stat. 171,
    prescribed composition of election boards.
      Section 139, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 8, 34 Stat. 172,
    described manner of filling vacancies in office of judge of
    election.
      Section 140, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 7, 34 Stat. 172,
    provided for election watchers.
      Section 141, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 9, 34 Stat. 172,
    prescribed hours for voting and form of ballots.
      Section 142, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 10, 34 Stat. 172,
    related to election challenges and to penalties for false swearing.
      Section 143, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 11, 34 Stat. 173,
    provided for canvass of votes, certificates of result and care of
    documents.
      Section 144, acts May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 12, 34 Stat. 173;
    Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 17, 37 Stat. 517, enumerated persons
    who compose canvassing board and provided for manner of conducting
    the canvass.
      Section 144a, act Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 86, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 465,
    enumerated persons who compose canvassing board and provided for
    manner of conducting canvass.
      Section 144b, act Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 86, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 466,
    empowered legislature to change personnel of canvassing board, date
    of meetings, and to prescribe its duties.
      Section 145, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 387, Sec. 17, 37 Stat. 517;
    Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 86, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 465, prescribed date for
    holding elections to fill vacancies in office of Delegate.
      Section 146, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 13, 34 Stat. 174,
    prescribed compensation of election judges and clerks.
      Section 147, acts May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 13, 34 Stat. 174;
    May 25, 1950, ch. 199, 64 Stat. 191, authorized fees for
    publication for each election.
      Section 148, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 14, 34 Stat. 174,
    provided for manner of audit and payment of election expenses.
      Section 149, act May 7, 1906, ch. 2083, Sec. 15, 34 Stat. 174,
    enumerated election offenses and prescribed penalties therefor.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 161 to 170a                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 161 to 170a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 161 to 170a, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 161, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 3, 33 Stat. 617,
    named Governor as the ex officio superintendent of public
    instruction and empowered him to prescribe rules and regulations
    for examination and qualification of teachers.
      Section 162, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 617;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1491, 33 Stat. 1262, authorized establishment of
    school districts in towns.
      Section 163, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 617;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1491, 33 Stat. 1262, provided for school boards,
    their term of office and expenditures.
      Section 164, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 617;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1491, 33 Stat. 1262, empowered school boards to
    employ teachers and to provide for heating and lighting
    schoolhouses.
      Section 165, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 6, 33 Stat. 619,
    required clerks of school districts to report to the Governor.
      Section 166, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 5, 33 Stat. 617,
    authorized establishment of school districts outside incorporated
    towns.
      Section 167, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 5, 33 Stat. 617,
    provided for manner of election of school boards in school
    districts outside incorporated towns.
      Section 168, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 5, 33 Stat. 617;
    June 1, 1938, ch. 312, 52 Stat. 607, directed Governor to assign
    proportion of Alaska fund to school districts.
      Section 169, act Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 7, 33 Stat. 619,
    related to education of white children, Eskimos, and Indians.
      Section 170, act Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 167, 39 Stat. 1131, authorized
    legislature to establish schools for white and colored children and
    to appropriate funds for that purpose.
      Section 170a, act May 14, 1930, ch. 273, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 321,
    authorized Secretary of the Interior to enter into contracts with
    local school boards for education of children of nontaxpaying
    natives.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 171                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 171. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 171. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-304, Sec. 9(a)(1), Sept. 26, 1961,
      75 Stat. 664.
      Section, act Mar. 21, 1906, J. Res. No. 10, 34 Stat. 824,
    permitted teachers and other employees of the United States Bureau
    of Education to make assignments of their pay while employed in
    Alaska and authorized reimbursement of teachers in Alaska for
    expenses incurred in the discharge of duty and paid from personal
    funds.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 172, 173                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 172, 173. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 172 and 173, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 172, act Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 266, 35 Stat. 837, authorized
    appointment of school employees as special peace officers.
      Section 173, act Feb. 25, 1925, ch. 320, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 978,
    authorized establishment of a system of vocational training for
    aboriginal natives.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 174                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 174. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 174. Repealed. Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, Sec. 1(125), 65 Stat.
      706.
      Section, act Feb. 25, 1925, ch. 320, Sec. 2, 43 Stat. 978,
    related to transfer of buildings for purpose of vocational
    training, schools, and hospitals in connection with aboriginal
    natives in Alaska.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 175, 175a                                      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 175, 175a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 175 and 175a, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 175, act July 31, 1946, ch. 719, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 750,
    authorized establishment of a geophysical institute at the
    University of Alaska.
      Section 175a, act July 31, 1946, ch. 719, Sec. 2, 60 Stat. 751,
    provided that buildings and equipment of geophysical institute
    shall become property of University of Alaska.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 191 to 213                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 191 to 213. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 191 to 213, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 191, act May 31, 1920, ch. 217, 41 Stat. 716, related to
    powers and duties of Secretary of the Interior with respect to game
    animals.
      Section 192, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 5, 43 Stat. 741;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 3, 46 Stat. 1111; June 25, 1938, ch.
    686, Sec. 3, 52 Stat. 1170; July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 304,
    prescribed duties and powers of Alaska Game Commission, wildlife
    agents, and other persons.
      Section 193, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 6, 43 Stat. 742;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 305, required bonds from employees
    of Commission.
      Section 194, act Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 7, 43 Stat. 742,
    required Commission to file estimates and submit reports of
    administration.
      Section 195, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 7, 43 Stat. 743;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 305, prescribed restrictions on
    taking of animals, birds, fish, etc.
      Section 196, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 7, 43 Stat. 743;
    Feb. 4, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 4, 46 Stat. 1112; July 1, 1943, ch.
    183, 57 Stat. 305, related to animals and birds escaping from
    captivity or introduced into Territory.
      Section 197, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 8, 43 Stat. 743;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 305, prohibited use of poison and
    required the keeping of records of sales.
      Section 198, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 9, 43 Stat. 743;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 5, 46 Stat. 1112; June 25, 1938, ch.
    686, Sec. 4, 52 Stat. 1170; Oct. 10, 1940, ch. 54 Stat. 1103; July
    1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 306, empowered Secretary to promulgate
    regulations for taking of game, limiting the take, seasons, and for
    protection of Government property.
      Section 199, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 10, 43 Stat. 744;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Secs. 6 to 11, 46 Stat. 1112 to 1114; June
    25, 1938, ch. 686, Sec. 5, 52 Stat. 1172; July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57
    Stat. 306, prescribed types of hunting, trapping and fishing
    licenses, guide licenses, fees and issuance thereof.
      Section 200, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 11, 43 Stat. 746;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 310, prescribed duties of
    collectors of customs.
      Section 201, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 13, 43 Stat. 746;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 12, 46 Stat. 1114; July 1, 1943, ch.
    183, 57 Stat. 310, prescribed duties of United States attorneys.
      Section 202, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 15, 43 Stat. 747;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 13, 46 Stat. 1114; June 25, 1938, ch.
    686, Sec. 6, 52 Stat. 1172; July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 311,
    prescribed penalties for violations of sections 192, 193, and 195
    to 211 of this title, required guides to report violations, and
    prescribed penalty for violation thereof.
      Section 202a, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 16, 43 Stat. 747;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 14, 46 Stat. 1114; July 1, 1943, ch.
    183, 57 Stat. 310, related to administration of oaths for purposes
    of prosecution.
      Section 202b, act Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 12, 43 Stat. 746;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 312, related to burden of proof in
    prosecutions under sections 192, 193, and 195 to 211 of this title.
      Section 203, act Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 19, as added July 1,
    1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 312, stated that sections 192, 193, and 195
    to 211 of this title shall not apply to Mount McKinley National
    Park.
      Section 204, act Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 18, as added July 1,
    1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 312, declared that provisions of sections
    192, 193, and 195 to 211 of this title were separable.
      Section 204a, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 17, 43 Stat. 747;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 312, authorized appropriations to
    effectuate provisions of Alaska Game Law.
      Section 205, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 739;
    Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 20, as added July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57
    Stat. 312, prescribed effective date and short title of sections
    192, 193, and 195 to 211 of this title.
      Section 206, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 2, 43 Stat. 739;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1111; June 25, 1938, ch.
    686, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 1169; July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 301,
    defined terms used in sections 192, 193, and 195 to 211 of this
    title.
      Section 207, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 3, 43 Stat. 740;
    Feb. 14, 1931, ch. 185, Sec. 2, 46 Stat. 1111; June 25, 1938, ch.
    686, Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 1170; July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 303;
    Apr. 20, 1949, ch. 81, 63 Stat. 56, provided for residence and
    citizenship requirements for hunting, fishing, etc.
      Section 208, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 740;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 303; July 23, 1953, ch. 238, 67
    Stat. 185, provided for composition of Alaska Game Commission, its
    tenure and qualifications of members.
      Section 209, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 740;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 303, authorized Secretary to remove
    members of Commission and to fill vacancies.
      Section 210, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 740;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 304; July 24, 1947, ch. 307, Sec.
    1, 61 Stat. 415, prescribed compensation of members of Commission
    per diem allowances, and salary of executive officer.
      Section 211, acts Jan. 13, 1925, ch. 75, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 740;
    July 1, 1943, ch. 183, 57 Stat. 304, provided for office of
    commission, its business, and its seal.
      Section 212, acts Aug. 18, 1894, ch. 301, Sec. 1, 28 Stat. 391;
    Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, Sec. 7, 32 Stat. 828; Mar. 4, 1913, ch.
    141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736; May 31, 1920, ch. 217, 41 Stat. 716,
    directed Secretary to fix the price of blue fox skins paid to
    natives of St. Paul Island.
      Section 213, act May 31, 1920, ch. 217, 41 Stat. 717, enumerated
    the powers of bird reservation wardens.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 220 to 224                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 220 to 224. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 220 to 224, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 220, act Feb. 14, 1903, ch. 552, Sec. 7, 32 Stat. 828,
    vested control over the fur seal, salmon and other fisheries of
    Alaska in Department of the Interior.
      Section 221, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    June 18, 1926, ch. 621, 44 Stat. 752, empowered Secretary to set
    aside fishing areas, prescribed closed seasons, and to place
    limitations on catch.
      Section 222, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    June 18, 1926, ch. 621, 44 Stat. 752, declared that fishing in
    certain areas was unlawful, prohibited granting of exclusive
    rights, and provided that citizens shall not be denied fishing
    rights.
      Section 222a, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    Aug. 14, 1937, ch. 622, 50 Stat. 639; Apr. 7, 1938, ch. 110, 52
    Stat. 208, prohibited commercial salmon fishing by nonresidents.
      Section 223, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    June 18, 1926, ch. 621, 44 Stat. 752, related to prohibited areas
    in creeks, streams, rivers, etc.
      Section 223a, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    June 18, 1926, ch. 621, 44 Stat. 752, authorized Secretary to
    permit taking of fish or shellfish for bait purposes.
      Section 223b, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    Aug. 2, 1937, ch. 556, 50 Stat. 557, authorized Secretary to lease
    bottoms for oyster cultivation.
      Section 224, acts June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 464;
    June 18, 1926, ch. 621, 44 Stat. 752, prohibited importation of
    salmon during closed seasons.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 225                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 225. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 225. Repealed. Pub. L. 85-296, Sept. 4, 1957, 71 Stat. 617.
      Section, act June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 2, 43 Stat. 465, related
    to escapement in certain instances of portion of salmon run in
    waters of Alaska.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 226 to 239                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 226 to 239. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 226 to 239, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 226, act June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 6, 43 Stat. 466,
    prescribed penalties for violation of fishing laws.
      Section 227, act June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 6, 43 Stat. 466,
    empowered Director of Fish and Wildlife Service to designate
    employees as peace officers.
      Section 228, act June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 8, 43 Stat. 467,
    provided that nothing in sections 221 to 224, 226 to 228, and 232
    to 234 of this title shall not abrogate or curtail any territorial
    powers.
      Section 229, act May 31, 1920, ch. 217, 41 Stat. 717, enumerated
    powers of bird reservation wardens.
      Section 230, act June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 478,
    established a license tax on canning fish.
      Section 231, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 478;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736, listed exemptions from
    license tax.
      Section 232, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 4, 34 Stat. 479;
    June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 466, prescribed manner of
    taking fish.
      Section 233, acts June 26, 1900, ch. 3547, Sec. 3, 34 Stat. 479;
    June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 3, 43 Stat. 465; Apr. 16, 1934, ch.
    146, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 594; Mar. 16, 1955, ch. 12, 69 Stat. 12,
    prohibited obstructions in waters for capturing salmon.
      Section 234, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 5, 34 Stat. 479;
    June 6, 1924, ch. 272, Sec. 5, 43 Stat. 466; July 2, 1940, ch. 514,
    54 Stat. 723, related to closed season for salmon and to stationary
    and floating traps.
      Section 235, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 7, 34 Stat. 480;
    Feb. 28, 1929, ch. 365, 45 Stat. 1349, required salmon to be canned
    or salted within forty-eight hours after being killed.
      Section 236, act June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 8, 34 Stat. 480,
    prohibited waste or destruction of food fish.
      Section 237, act June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 9, 34 Stat. 480,
    prohibited false labeling or branding of packages of fish.
      Section 238, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 10, 34 Stat. 480;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37, Stat. 736, required reports of
    persons engaged in fishing industry.
      Section 239, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 11, 34 Stat. 480;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736, related to manner of
    catching or killing fish.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 240                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 240. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 240. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 637.
      Section, acts June 4, 1897, ch. 2, Sec. 1, 30 Stat. 29; June 23,
    1913, ch. 3, 38 Stat. 63, authorized appointment of an agent and
    assistant agent for protection of salmon fisheries.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 241 to 248b                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 241 to 248b. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 241 to 248b, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 241, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 12, 34 Stat. 480;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736, empowered Secretary to
    deputize officers and employees of the Department as law
    enforcement officers.
      Section 242, acts June 26, 1906, ch. 3547, Sec. 14, 34 Stat. 481;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736, related to
    jurisdiction of prosecutions for violations of sections 230 to 239,
    241, and 242 of this title.
      Section 243, acts June 14, 1906, ch. 3299, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 263;
    June 25, 1938, ch. 689, 52 Stat. 1174, prohibited fishing by aliens
    and permitted sales to aliens.
      Section 244, act June 14, 1906, ch. 3299, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 264,
    prescribed penalties for violations of sections 243 to 247 of this
    title.
      Section 245, act June 14, 1906, ch. 3299, Sec. 3, 34 Stat. 264,
    provided for jurisdiction of prosecutions under sections 243 to 247
    of this title.
      Section 246, acts June 14, 1906, ch. 3299, Sec. 4, 34 Stat. 264;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736; Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393,
    Secs. 1, 20, 63 Stat. 495, 501, authorized searches and seizures of
    vessels.
      Section 247, acts June 14, 1906, ch. 3299, Sec. 5, 34 Stat. 264;
    Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 736; Jan. 28, 1915, ch. 20,
    Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 800; Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, Secs. 1, 20, 63 Stat.
    495, 561, empowered Secretary to promulgate rules and regulations
    to carry into effect provisions of sections 243 to 246 of this
    title.
      Section 248, acts Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 368, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 632;
    June 29, 1956, ch. 460, Secs. 1, 2, 70 Stat. 372, provided for
    protection of walruses.
      Section 248a, act Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 368, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 633,
    prescribed duties of law enforcement officers, and for forfeiture
    of equipment of convicted persons.
      Section 248b, act Aug. 18, 1941, ch. 368, Sec. 3, 55 Stat. 633,
    defined terms used in sections 248 to 248b of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 250 to 250p                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 250 to 250p. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 250, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 900,
    which declared purpose of sections 250 to 250n of this title for
    establishment of a reindeer industry, was transferred to section
    500 of Title 25, Indians.
      Section 250a, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 2, 50 Stat. 900,
    which authorized Secretary of the Interior to acquire reindeer and
    other property, was transferred to section 500a of Title 25.
      Section 250b, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 3, 50 Stat. 900,
    which required filing of claims to title to reindeer by nonnatives,
    was transferred to section 500b of Title 25.
      Section 250c, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 4, 50 Stat. 900,
    which authorized Secretary to accept gifts for purposes of sections
    250 to 250n of this title, was transferred to section 500c of Title
    25.
      Section 250d, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 5, 50 Stat. 900,
    which empowered Secretary to receive and expand loans, grants, or
    allocations for purposes of sections 250 to 250n of this title, was
    transferred to section 500d of Title 25.
      Section 250e, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 6, 50 Stat. 900,
    which established a revolving fund for purposes of sections 250 to
    250n of this title, was transferred to section 500e of Title 25.
      Section 250f, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 7, 50 Stat. 900,
    which related to management of reindeer industry, was transferred
    to section 500f of Title 25.
      Section 250g, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 8, 50 Stat. 901,
    which empowered Secretary to distribute reindeer, property, and
    profits to natives, was transferred to section 500g of Title 25.
      Section 250h, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 9, 50 Stat. 901,
    which authorized Secretary to grant administrative powers to
    organizations of natives, was transferred to section 500h of Title
    25.
      Section 250i, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 10, 50 Stat. 901,
    which provided for alienation of reindeer or interests, was
    transferred to section 500i of Title 25.
      Section 250j, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 11, 50 Stat. 902,
    which defined reindeer as used in sections 250 to 250n, of this
    title, was transferred to section 500j of Title 25.
      Section 250k, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 12, 50 Stat. 902,
    which authorized Secretary to promulgate rules and regulations, was
    transferred to section 500k of Title 25.
      Section 250l, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 13, 50 Stat. 902,
    which directed Secretary, whenever practicable, to appoint natives
    to administer the industry, was transferred to section 500l of
    Title 25.
      Section 250m, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 14, 50 Stat. 902,
    which related to use of public lands, was transferred to section
    500m of Title 25.
      Section 250n, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 15, 50 Stat. 902,
    which defined "Natives of Alaska" for purposes of sections 250 to
    250n of this title, was transferred to section 500n of Title 25.
      Section 250o, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 16, 50 Stat. 902,
    which authorized appropriation of $2,000,000.00 to carry out
    sections 250 to 250n of this title, is set out as a note under
    section 500 of Title 25.
      Section 250p, act Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 897, Sec. 17, 50 Stat. 902,
    which repealed provisions inconsistent with sections 250 to 250n of
    this title, is set out as a note under section 500 of Title 25.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 261 to 291                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 261 to 291. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 261 to 291. Repealed. Apr. 13, 1934, ch. 119, Sec. 1, 48
      Stat. 583.
      Section 261, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 903,
    prohibited manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquor in the
    territory of Alaska.
      Section 262, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 2, 39 Stat. 903,
    related to a permit for transportation of pure alcohol.
      Section 263, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 904,
    related to an application for a permit to transport pure alcohol.
      Section 264, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 4, 39 Stat. 904,
    related to form and issue of permits for transport of pure alcohol.
      Section 265, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 904,
    related to maintenance of a record of permits.
      Section 266, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 6, 39 Stat. 904,
    related to attaching permits to packages.
      Section 267, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 25, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to revocation of licenses of pharmacists.
      Section 268, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 904,
    related to records for shipments of pure alcohol.
      Section 269, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 8, 39 Stat. 905,
    related to transportation of wine for sacramental purposes.
      Section 270, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 9, 39 Stat. 905,
    related to refusal of delivery of sacramental wine without a
    certificate.
      Section 271, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 10, 39 Stat. 905,
    related to alcohol for scientific purposes.
      Section 272, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 11, 39 Stat. 905,
    related to form for permits for transport of alcohol for scientific
    purposes.
      Section 273, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 12, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to cancellation of permits to transport alcohol for
    scientific purposes.
      Section 274, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to use of buildings or vehicles for unlawful manufacture,
    transportation, or disposal of intoxicating liquors.
      Section 275, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 14, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to importation or possession of liquors except as provided
    by law.
      Section 276, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 15, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to drinking intoxicating liquors in or on a passenger
    coach.
      Section 277, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 16, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to penalty for maintaining a place for unlawful sale of
    alcoholic liquors.
      Section 278, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 17, 39 Stat. 906,
    related to arrest for unlawful manufacture sale or transport of
    intoxicating liquors.
      Section 279, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 18, 39 Stat. 907,
    related to evidence necessary to convict.
      Section 280, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 19, 39 Stat. 907,
    related to holding places which dispensed alcoholic liquor
    unlawfully as a nuisance.
      Section 281, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 907,
    related to abatement of liquor nuisances.
      Section 282, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 21, 39 Stat. 907,
    related to forfeiture of a lease by a tenant convicted of
    maintaining a liquor nuisance.
      Section 283, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 22, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to owners of buildings knowingly permitting a liquor
    nuisance.
      Section 284, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 23, 39 Stat. 908,
    provided that no property rights exist in alcoholic liquors
    illegally manufactured or stored.
      Section 285, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 908,
    provided for punishment for violation of law.
      Section 286, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to evidence of sale of intoxicating liquors.
      Section 287, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 27, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to duties of officers to enforce the law.
      Section 288, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 28, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to filing of an information for prosecution.
      Section 289, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 29, 39 Stat. 908,
    related to penalty for unlawful importation of liquor.
      Section 290, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 31, 39 Stat. 909,
    provided for additional legislation as needed.
      Section 291, act Feb. 14, 1917, ch. 53, Sec. 32, 39 Stat. 909,
    provided that in interpretation of these provisions singular
    include plural and masculine include feminine.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 292, 293                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 292, 293. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 292 and 293, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 292, act Apr. 13, 1934, ch. 119, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 583,
    provided for manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors.
      Section 293, act Apr. 13, 1934, ch. 119, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 584,
    ratified and approved act to create board of liquor control, and
    prescribed penalties for violation of rules and regulations of the
    board.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 301                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 301. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 305; Apr.
    10, 1926, ch. 114, 44 Stat. 239; Aug. 4, 1955, ch. 554, 69 Stat.
    494, which provided for location, construction and operation of
    railroads, and for use of passes, was transferred to section 975 of
    Title 43, Public Lands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 301a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 301a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 301a. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-468, title VI, Sec. 615(a)(2), Jan.
      14, 1983, 96 Stat. 2578.
      Section, act June 24, 1946, ch. 465, 60 Stat. 304, provided that
    funds available for operation of Alaska Railroad were available for
    other specified purposes.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal by Pub. L. 97-468 effective on date of transfer of Alaska
    Railroad to the State [Jan. 5, 1985], pursuant to section 1203 of
    Title 45, Railroads, see section 615(b) of Pub. L. 97-468.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 302 to 308                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 302 to 308. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 302, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 305,
    which authorized construction and maintenance of telegraph and
    telephone lines, was transferred to section 975a of Title 43,
    Public Lands.
      Section 302a, act May 26, 1900, ch. 586, 31 Stat. 206, which
    prohibited establishment of telegraph or cable lines by foreigners,
    was transferred to section 17 of Title 47, Telegraphs, Telephones,
    and Radiotelegraphs, and was subsequently repealed.
      Section 303, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 305,
    which empowered the President to designate town sites, was
    transferred to section 975b of Title 43, Public Lands, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 704(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2792.
      Section 304, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 505,
    which related to terminals, stations, and rights of way, was
    transferred to section 975c of Title 43.
      Section 305, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 505,
    which required patents to reserve rights of way to the United
    States, was transferred to section 975d of Title 43.
      Section 306, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 3, 38 Stat. 307,
    which provided for disposition of proceeds of lease or sale of
    public lands, was transferred to section 975e of Title 43.
      Section 307, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 305, which
    authorized and empowered the President to carry out the provisions
    dealing with the establishment of public utilities, was transferred
    to section 975f of Title 43.
      Section 308, act Mar. 12, 1914, ch. 37, Sec. 4, 38 Stat. 307,
    which made mandatory certain annual reports to the President by
    officers, agents, or agencies covering their activities in
    connection with the construction and development of public
    utilities, was transferred to section 975g of Title 43.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 309                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 309. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 309. Repealed. Feb. 10, 1939, ch. 2, Sec. 4(a), 53 Stat. 1.
      Section, act July 18, 1914, ch. 187, 38 Stat. 517, related to
    taxation of railroads.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 310, 311                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 310, 311. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 310 and 311, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 310, act May 26, 1900, ch. 586, 31 Stat. 206, allowed
    conduct of commercial business over military telegraph and cable
    lines.
      Section 311, act May 23, 1941, ch. 130, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 190,
    allowed payment of charges for interconnection between radio-
    telephone facilities of Alaska Communication System and commercial
    facilities to be made out of receipts of the Alaska Communication
    System.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 312 to 312d                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 312 to 312d. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 312 to 312d. Repealed. Pub. L. 104-58, title I, Sec.
      104(g)(1), Nov. 28, 1995, 109 Stat. 560.
      Section 312, acts July 31, 1950, ch. 510, Sec. 1, 64 Stat. 382;
    Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 430, Sec. 1(1), (2), 67 Stat. 574; Oct. 30,
    1984, Pub. L. 98-552, Sec. 4, 98 Stat. 2823, authorized
    construction of Eklutna project, reservation of mineral rights,
    disposition of net proceeds, and reservation of water rights.
      Section 312a, acts July 31, 1950, ch. 510, Sec. 2, 64 Stat. 382;
    Aug. 13, 1953, ch. 430, Sec. 1(3), 67 Stat. 574, covered
    disposition of electric power produced from Eklutna project, rate
    and rate schedules, sale preferences, disposition of receipts, and
    creation of a continuing fund.
      Section 312b, act July 31, 1950, ch. 510, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 383,
    authorized Secretary of the Interior to perform the acts necessary
    to carry into effect Eklutna project and otherwise set out his
    powers and duties in connection with project.
      Section 312c, act July 31, 1950, ch. 510, Sec. 4, 64 Stat. 383,
    authorized and directed Secretary to report on feasibility of
    transferring Eklutna project, upon completion, to public ownership.
      Section 312d, act July 31, 1950, ch. 510, Sec. 5, 64 Stat. 383,
    authorized Secretary to delegate the powers and functions given him
    in connection with the Eklutna project.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Oct. 2, 1997, date Eklutna was conveyed to
    Eklutna Purchasers, see section 104(g)(1) of Pub. L. 104-58, set
    out as an Alaska Power Administration Asset Sale and Termination
    note under section 7152 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 315 to 315i                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 315 to 315i. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 315 to 315i, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 315, acts May 31, 1938, ch. 298, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 589;
    July 24, 1946, ch. 610, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 659, authorized public
    school and utility districts to construct facilities, incur bonded
    indebtedness, and perform other defined functions.
      Section 315a, acts May 31, 1938, ch. 298, Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 589;
    July 24, 1946, ch. 610, Sec. 2, 60 Stat. 659, required submission
    of proposal to electors before any public utility or school
    district could incur a bonded indebtedness.
      Section 315b, act May 31, 1938, ch. 298, Sec. 3, 52 Stat. 589,
    set out terms, execution, interest, and sales price of bonds of
    public utility or school district.
      Section 315c, act May 31, 1938, ch. 298, Sec. 4, 52 Stat. 590,
    laid upon governing body of each district duty of levying taxes to
    provide payment of interest and principal on bonds.
      Section 315d, act May 31, 1938, ch. 298, Sec. 5, 52 Stat. 590,
    repealed laws inconsistent with sections 315 to 315d and restricted
    effect of any limitation placed upon powers granted thereby to such
    powers and not to powers granted by any other sections.
      Section 315e, acts Jan. 17, 1940, ch. 3, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 14;
    Aug. 18, 1958, Pub. L. 85-675, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 625, authorized
    issuance of refunding bonds by municipal corporations and public
    utility districts.
      Section 315f, acts Jan. 17, 1940, ch. 3, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 15;
    Aug. 18, 1958, Pub. L. 85-675, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 626, set terms,
    interest, negotiability, etc., of refunding bonds.
      Section 315g, acts Jan. 17, 1940, ch. 3, Sec. 3, 54 Stat. 15;
    Aug. 18, 1958, Pub. L. 85-675, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 626, laid upon
    governing body of municipal corporations or public-utility or
    school district duty of levying taxes to retire refunding bonds.
      Section 315h, act Jan. 17, 1940, ch. 3, Sec. 4, 54 Stat. 15,
    ratified prior issues of refunding bonds.
      Section 315i, Pub. L. 85-675, Sec. 2, Aug. 18, 1958, 72 Stat.
    626, ratified prior issues of refunding bonds.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 321                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 321. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616; May
    14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192, which related to
    establishment of Board of Road Commissioners and its composition,
    was omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 321a to 325                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 321a to 325. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 321a to 325. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-70, Sec. 21(d)(6), (7),
      June 25, 1959, 73 Stat. 146.
      Section 321a, act June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 446,
    related to execution of laws pertaining to construction and
    maintenance of roads and trails by Secretary of the Interior.
      Section 321b, act June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 446,
    related to distribution of duties and promulgation of rules and
    regulation.
      Section 321c, act June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 446,
    related to submission of appropriations.
      Section 321d, act June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 5, as added July
    24, 1947, ch. 313, 61 Stat. 418, required a reservation of right-of-
    way for roads, roadways, highways, tramways, trails, bridges, and
    appurtenant structures in patents and deeds.
      Section 322, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192; June 30, 1932, ch.
    320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446; July 14, 1955, ch. 359, 69 Stat. 321,
    related to location, lay out, construction, and maintenance of
    roads, trails and bridges.
      Section 323, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192; June 30, 1932, ch.
    320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446, related to maps, plans and
    specifications for roads and trails and contracts for permanent
    contracts.
      Section 324, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192; June 30, 1932, ch.
    320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446, related to repair of roads and trails.
      Section 325, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192; June 30, 1932, ch.
    320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446, related to costs and expenses of laying
    out, constructing, and repairing roads and trails.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 321a to 325 effective July 1, 1959, see
    section 21(d) of Pub. L. 86-70 set out as an Effective Date of 1959
    Amendment note under section 103 of Title 23, Highways.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 326 to 330                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 326 to 330. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 326 to 330, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 326, acts Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 225, title II, 43 Stat. 930;
    June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446, authorized incurring
    of obligations for roads, bridges, and trails in advance of
    appropriations in certain cases.
      Section 327, acts June 30, 1921, ch. 33, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 90;
    June 30, 1932, ch. 320, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 446, authorized Secretary
    of the Interior to accept contributions from Territory or from
    other sources for use in construction, maintenance, or repair of
    roads, bridges, ferries, trails, and related works in the
    Territory.
      Section 328, act July 9, 1918, ch. 143, 40 Stat. 863, related to
    estimates for work on roads.
      Section 329, acts Jan. 27, 1905, ch. 277, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 616;
    May 14, 1906, ch. 2458, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 192, related to expenses
    of board in addition to salary.
      Section 330, act Apr. 27, 1914, ch. 72, 38 Stat. 366, related to
    per diem commutation of Army officer member of board.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 331 to 337                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 331 to 337. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 331 to 337. Repealed. Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat.
      1029.
      Section 331, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 391, related
    to road overseers and to creation of road districts.
      Section 332, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 391, related
    to term of office and qualification of road overseers.
      Section 333, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 392, related
    to duties of overseers.
      Section 334, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 392, related
    to work on roads.
      Section 335, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 393, related
    to an annual report.
      Section 336, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 393, related
    to neglect or refusal of road overseers to perform their duties.
      Section 337, act Apr. 27, 1904, ch. 1629, 33 Stat. 393, related
    to compensation of road overseers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 338 to 338g                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 338 to 338g. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 338 to 338g, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 338, acts Aug. 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 888; Apr.
    20, 1957, Pub. L. 85-16, 71 Stat. 14; July 6, 1959, Pub. L. 86-78,
    Sec. 1(1), 73 Stat. 161, established Alaska International Rail and
    Highway Commission, set out its size and structure, appointment of
    its members, and selection of chairman and vice chairman, and
    authorized appointment of an Army officer to Commission.
      Section 338a, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 8888,
    set out duties of Commission.
      Section 338b, acts Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 3, 70 Stat. 888;
    Aug. 8, 1958, Pub. L. 85-601, Sec. 1(a), 72 Stat. 524, authorized
    Commission to cooperate with Canada in carrying out its functions.
      Section 338c, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 889,
    set out powers of Commission to conduct hearings, administer oaths
    and affirmations, employ experts, utilize facilities, information,
    and personnel of other federal departments and agencies, and use
    information contained in certain named surveys and plans.
      Section 338d, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 5, 70 Stat. 889,
    authorized Commission to delegate its powers and duties, other than
    duty of submitting reports and making recommendations to Congress.
      Section 338e, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 6, 70 Stat. 889,
    provided for reimbursement of Commission members for travel,
    subsistence, and other necessary expenses although it expressly
    called for service by Commission members without compensation.
      Section 338f, acts Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 7, 70 Stat. 889;
    Aug. 8, 1958, Pub. L. 85-601, Sec. 1(b), 72 Stat. 524; July 6,
    1959, Pub. L. 86-78, Sec. 1(2), 73 Stat. 161, required Commission
    to make certain reports and recommendations and called for
    termination of Commission after submission of its final report.
      Section 338g, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 840, Sec. 8, 70 Stat. 889;
    Aug. 8, 1958, Pub. L. 85-601, Sec. 1(c), 72 Stat. 525, authorized
    making of appropriations to enable Commission to carry out its
    functions.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 341                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 341. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Mar. 30, 1948, ch. 162, 62 Stat. 100, which made
    provision for occupancy and use of national-forest lands under
    permit and dealt with period of such permits, size of area
    allotted, prohibitions, and the termination of permits, was
    transferred to section 497a of Title 16, Conservation.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 351, 352                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 351, 352. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 351, act Mar. 3, 1889, ch. 424, Sec. 1, 30 Stat. 1098,
    which extended to Territory the system of public land surveys, was
    transferred to section 751a of Title 43, Public Lands.
      Section 352, acts Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2537, Sec. 4, 34 Stat. 1232;
    Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1144; Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec.
    2, 56 Stat. 779, which provided for making of land surveys in Nome
    and Fairbanks districts, was transferred to section 751b of Title
    43.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 353                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 353. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 353. Repealed. Pub. L. 85-508, Sec. 6(k), July 7, 1958, 72
      Stat. 343.
      Section, acts Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 181, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 1214; Mar.
    5, 1952, ch. 80, Secs. 1-3, 66 Stat. 14; Aug. 5, 1953, ch. 323, 67
    Stat. 364; Aug. 2, 1956, ch. 892, 70 Stat. 954; Aug. 27, 1958, Pub.
    L. 85-771, Sec. 3, 72 Stat. 929, made reservation of certain lands
    for educational purposes, covered disposition of proceeds or income
    derived from reserved lands, and set out exclusion of certain
    lands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 353a to 362                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 353a to 362. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 353a, act May 31, 1938, ch. 304, 52 Stat. 593, which
    authorized Secretary of the Interior to reserve tracts in Alaska
    for school, hospitals, etc. for the Indians, Eskimos, and Aleuts of
    Alaska, was transferred to section 497 of Title 25, Indians, and
    was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 704(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2792.
      Section 354, act Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 181, Sec. 2, 38 Stat. 1215,
    which set aside a site for an agricultural college and school of
    mines, is set out as note under section 852 of Title 43, Public
    Lands.
      Section 354a, acts Jan. 21, 1929, ch. 92, Secs. 1-7, 45 Stat.
    1091-1093; July 12, 1960, Pub. L. 86-620, 74 Stat. 408, which made
    additional grants for an agricultural college and school of mines
    and imposed certain conditions and limitations, is set out as a
    note under section 852 of Title 43.
      Section 355, act Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 561, Sec. 11, 26 Stat. 1099,
    which permitted lands to be entered for town-site purposes and set
    out the requirements for the proper execution of the trust created
    thereby, was transferred to section 732 of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 355a, act May 25, 1926, ch. 379, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 629,
    which authorized town-site trustee to issue a deed setting aside
    lands on survey of town site for Indian or Eskimo lands, was
    transferred to section 733 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat.
    2789.
      Section 355b, act May 25, 1926, ch. 379, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 630,
    which authorized the extension of streets and alleys across Indian
    or Eskimo lands, was transferred to section 734, of Title 43, and
    was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 355c, act May 25, 1926, ch. 379, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 630,
    which authorized the Secretary of the Interior to have nonmineral
    lands surveyed into lots and blocks, was transferred to section 735
    of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec.
    703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 355d, act May 25, 1926, ch. 379, Sec. 4, 44 Stat. 630,
    which authorized the Secretary to prescribe appropriate regulations
    for the administration of sections 355a to 355c of this title, was
    transferred to section 736 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat.
    2789.
      Section 355e, act Feb. 26, 1948, ch. 72, 62 Stat. 35, which
    permitted the holding of town-site lands under unrestricted deeds
    by Alaska natives under certain conditions, was transferred to
    section 737 of Title 43.
      Section 356, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 27, 31 Stat. 330,
    which prohibited the disturbing of the occupancy of lands being
    occupied by Indians or other persons conducting schools or missions
    but expressly cautioned against a construction of this section
    which might serve to place in force in the Territory the general
    land laws of the United States, was transferred to section 280a of
    Title 25, Indians.
      Section 357, acts May 17, 1906, ch. 2469, 34 Stat. 197; Aug. 2,
    1956, ch. 891, Sec. 1(a)-(d), 70 Stat. 954, which authorized the
    making of homestead allotments to native Indians, Aleuts, or
    Eskimos, was transferred to section 270-1 of Title 43, Public
    Lands, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 92-203, Sec. 18(a),
    Dec. 18, 1971, 85 Stat. 710.
      Section 357a, act May 17, 1906, ch. 2469, Sec. 2, as added Aug.
    2, 1956, ch. 891, Sec. 1(e), 70 Stat. 954, which permitted
    allotments of land in national forests if the land was certified as
    chiefly valuable for agricultural or grazing uses, was transferred
    to section 270-2 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 92-203, Sec. 18(a), Dec. 18, 1971, 85 Stat. 710.
      Section 357b, act May 27, 1906, ch. 2469, Sec. 2, as added Aug.
    2, 1956, ch. 891, Sec. 1(e), 70 Stat. 954, which prohibited the
    making of an allotment unless the person made satisfactory proof of
    substantially continuous use and occupancy of the land for five
    years, was transferred to section 270-3 of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 92-203, Sec. 18(a), Dec. 18, 1971,
    85 Stat. 710.
      Section 358, act Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 561, Sec. 15, 26 Stat. 1101,
    which reserved the Annette Islands for the Metlakahtla Indians, was
    transferred to section 495 of Title 25, Indians.
      Section 358a, act May 1, 1936, ch. 254, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1250,
    which authorized the designation of land for the use of Indians or
    Eskimos, was transferred to section 496 of Title 25, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 704(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2792.
      Section 359, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413;
    Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 208; Mar. 3, 1925, ch.
    462, 43 Stat. 1144, which set out the requirements of filing,
    publishing, and posting of proofs needed for proving claims, as
    well as the form and use of the affidavits, was transferred to
    section 270-4 of Title 43, Public Lands, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 702, Oct. 21, 1976, 90
    Stat. 2787.
      Section 360, act July 3, 1926, ch. 745, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 821,
    which authorized the leasing of land for the purpose of fur
    farming, was transferred to section 687c of Title 43.
      Section 361, act July 3, 1926, ch. 745, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 822,
    which authorized the Secretary of the Interior to perform any and
    all acts necessary to carry into effect the provisions of section
    360, was transferred to section 687c-1 of Title 43.
      Section 362, act May 1, 1936, ch. 254, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1250,
    which called for the application to the Territory of certain
    statutes dealing with the conservation of Indian lands and allowed
    the organization of groups of Indians not recognized as bands or
    tribes, was transferred to section 473a of Title 25, Indians.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 363                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 363. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 363. Repealed. June 14, 1926, ch. 578, Sec. 5, as added June
      4, 1954, ch. 263, 68 Stat. 175.
      Section, act Oct. 17, 1940, ch. 890, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 1192,
    authorized, with limitations, the sale or lease of unreserved
    public lands in Alaska to incorporated cities and towns in Alaska
    for cemetery, park, or recreational purposes.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 364 to 365                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 364 to 365. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 364, act July 24, 1947, ch. 305, 61 Stat. 414, which
    authorized the legislature to provide for the exercise of zoning
    power in town sites, was transferred to section 738 of Title 43,
    Public Lands, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec.
    703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364a, act Aug. 30, 1949, ch. 521, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 679,
    which authorized the sale of certain public lands and set out the
    requirements of public auction, notice, and proof of the buyer's
    intention, was transferred to section 687b of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a),
    Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364b, act Aug. 30, 1949, ch. 521, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 679,
    which prohibited the sale of land for less than the appraised value
    and the cost of making any survey to properly describe the land
    sold, was transferred to section 687b-1 of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a),
    Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364c, act Aug. 30, 1949, ch. 521, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 679,
    which called for issuance of a certificate of purchase to buyers of
    public lands and made provision for patent in fee and issuance and
    contents thereof and placed the liability for mining damage upon
    persons prospecting for and removing minerals, was transferred to
    section 687b-2 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364d, act Aug. 30, 1949, ch. 521, Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 679,
    which saved existing rights and limited the application of sections
    364a-364e of this title, was transferred to section 687b-3 of Title
    43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII,
    Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364e, act Aug. 30, 1949, ch. 521, Sec. 5, 63 Stat. 679,
    which authorized the Secretary of the Interior to make rules and
    regulations to carry out the purposes of section 364a to 364e of
    this title, was transferred to section 687b-4 of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a),
    Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 364f, Pub. L. 88-66, July 19, 1963, 77 Stat. 80, which
    called for the application of equitable principles upon submission
    of proof of compliance with use requirements after prescribed
    period, was transferred to section 687b-5 of Title 43, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 365, act Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec. 6, 56 Stat. 779,
    which provided for continuation of existing land districts and
    offices and made provision for making of changes in district
    boundaries, discontinuance of districts, and designation of land
    offices, was transferred to section 123a of Title 43.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 366 to 367                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 366 to 367. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 366 to 367, which related to registers at land offices,
    were omitted in view of Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1946, Sec. 403, eff.
    July 16, 1946, 60 Stat. 1100, set out in the Appendix to Title 5,
    Government Organization and Employees, which abolished the office
    of land register and transferred its functions to the Secretary of
    the Interior.
      Section 366, act Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec. 2, 56 Stat. 779,
    which related to registers at land offices at Anchorage, Nome, and
    Fairbanks, was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a),
    Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 651.
      Section 366a, act Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec. 3, 56 Stat. 779,
    which related to additional registers, was subsequently repealed by
    Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 651.
      Section 367, act Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec. 4, 56 Stat. 779,
    related to duties of registers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 367a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 367a. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Oct. 9, 1942, ch. 584, Sec. 5, 56 Stat. 779, which
    made public land claimants liable for fees, commissions, or
    purchase money required by law to be paid, was transferred to
    section 79d of Title 43, Public Lands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 368                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 368. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act June 5, 1920, ch. 235, Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 908, which
    related to compensation of clerks in district land offices, was
    limited to the appropriation act of which it was a part.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 371 to 371c                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 371 to 371c. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 371, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 1, 30 Stat. 409;
    Mar. 3, 1903, ch. 1002, 32 Stat. 1028; Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, Sec.
    1, 42 Stat. 208; Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1144; Apr. 29,
    1950, ch. 137, Sec. 1, 64 Stat. 94; Aug. 2, 1955, ch. 496, Sec. 1,
    69 Stat. 444, which extended the homestead laws to Alaska, was
    transferred to section 270 of Title 43, Public Lands, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21,
    1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 371a, act Apr. 29, 1950, ch. 137, Sec. 2, 64 Stat. 95,
    which required the filing of notice of location by all persons
    maintaining a settlement claim on public land on April 29, 1950 if
    notice of location had not previously been filed, was transferred
    to section 270-5 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 371b, act Apr. 29, 1950, ch. 137, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 95,
    which specified the effect of failing to file the notice of
    settlement required by section 371a of this title, was transferred
    to section 270-6 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 371c, acts Apr. 29, 1950, ch. 137, Sec. 4, 64 Stat. 95;
    July 11, 1956, ch. 571, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 529, which provided for
    final or homestead proof on unsurveyed land as a basis for free
    survey and set a time limit therefor, was transferred to section
    270-7 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579,
    Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 372                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 372. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts June 5, 1920, ch. 265, 41 Stat. 1059; Aug. 3, 1955,
    ch. 496, Sec. 3, 69 Stat. 444, which modified restrictions upon
    location of homestead sites, was omitted in view of admission of
    Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 373 to 385                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 373 to 385. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 373, acts July 8, 1916, ch. 228, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 352;
    June 28, 1918, ch. 110, 40 Stat. 632, which set a limit on the
    amount of homestead entries, was transferred to section 270-8 of
    Title 43, Public Lands, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-
    579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 374, acts July 8, 1916, ch. 228, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 352;
    June 28, 1918, ch. 110, 40 Stat. 632, which permitted a homestead
    entry in Alaska notwithstanding a former homestead entry in another
    state or territory, was transferred to section 270-9 of Title 43,
    and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct.
    21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 375, act July 8, 1916, ch. 228, Sec. 2, as added June 28,
    1918, ch. 110, 40 Stat. 633; amended Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, Sec.
    1, 42 Stat. 208; Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1144; July 11,
    1956, ch. 571, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 528, which made provision for proof
    of entry on unsurveyed lands, was transferred to section 270-10 of
    Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec.
    703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 376, acts Mar. 8, 1922, ch. 96, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 415;
    Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-725, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 730, which covered
    claims on land containing coal, oil, and gas, was transferred to
    section 270-11 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 377, acts Mar. 8, 1922, ch. 96, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 416;
    Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-725, Sec. 2, 72 Stat. 730, which called
    for the inclusion, in the patent for lands containing coal, oil,
    and gas, of a reservation to the United States of such minerals
    together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the same,
    was transferred to section 270-12 of Title 43.
      Section 377a, act Mar. 8, 1922, ch. 96, Sec. 3, as added Aug. 17,
    1961, Pub. L. 87-147, 75 Stat. 384; amended Oct. 3, 1962, Pub. L.
    87-742, 76 Stat. 740, which allowed the Secretary of the Interior
    to make disposition of lands known to contain coal, oil, or gas,
    was transferred to section 270-13 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat.
    2789.
      Section 378, act July 8, 1916, ch. 228, Sec. 3, formerly Sec. 2,
    39 Stat. 352, renumbered June 28, 1918, ch. 110, 40 Stat. 633,
    which excepted from homestead settlement and entry the lands in the
    Annette and Pribilof Islands, islands leased or occupied for the
    propagation of foxes, and other islands reserved or withdrawn from
    settlement or entry, was transferred to section 270-14 of Title 43,
    and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 703(a), Oct.
    21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 379, acts Apr. 13, 1926, ch. 121, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 243;
    Apr. 29, 1950, ch. 134, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 93, which permitted
    departure from the system of rectangular forms made by north-south
    lines in setting out homestead claims when local or topographic
    conditions required, was transferred to section 270-15 of Title 43,
    and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec.
    703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 380, acts Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, Sec. 1 42 Stat. 208;
    Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1144; Apr. 13, 1926, ch. 121, Sec.
    2, 44 Stat. 244, which made provision for the survey of soldier's
    additional entry, was transferred to section 270-16 of Title 43,
    and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec.
    703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 380a, act Apr. 13, 1926, ch. 121, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 244,
    which provided for the disposition of sums deposited was
    transferred to section 270-17 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976,
    90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 381, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 26, 31 Stat. 329;
    May 31, 1938, ch. 297, 52 Stat. 588; Aug. 8, 1947, ch. 514, Sec. 1,
    61 Stat. 916; Aug. 14, 1958, Pub. L. 85-662, 72 Stat. 615, which
    extended the mining laws of the United States to the Territory of
    Alaska, was transferred to section 49a of Title 30, Mineral Lands
    and Mining.
      Section 381a, act May 4, 1934, ch. 211, Secs. 2, 3, 48 Stat. 663,
    which extended the mining laws relating to placer claims to the
    Territory of Alaska, was transferred to section 49b of Title 30.
      Section 381b, act May 4, 1934, ch. 211, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 663,
    which related to effective date of section 381a of this title, is
    set out as a note under section 49b of Title 30.
      Section 382, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 15, 31 Stat. 327,
    which required recording notices of location of mining claims, was
    transferred to section 49c of Title 30.
      Section 383, act June 6, 1900, ch. 786, Sec. 16, 31 Stat. 328,
    which authorized regulations for recording notices of location of
    mining claims, and legalized certain records, was transferred to
    section 49d of Title 30.
      Section 384, act Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2559, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 1343,
    which required annual labor or improvements on mining claims, was
    transferred to section 49e of Title 30.
      Section 385, act Mar. 2, 1907, ch. 2559, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 1243,
    which prescribed the fees for filing proofs of work and
    improvements, was transferred to section 49f of Title 30.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 386                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 386. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 386. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-260, Sec. 1, Sept. 21, 1961, 75
      Stat. 541.
      Section, act June 7, 1910, ch. 265, 36 Stat. 459, permitted
    adverse claims provided for in sections 29 and 30 of Title 30,
    Mineral Lands and Mining, to be filed at any time during the 60
    days' period of publication or within eight months thereafter, and
    adverse suits provided for in section 30 of Title 30, to be
    instituted at any time within 60 days after the filing of said
    claims in the local land office.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 387 to 391                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 387 to 391. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 387 to 391. Repealed. May 4, 1934, ch. 211, Sec. 1, 48 Stat.
      663.
      Section 387, act Aug. 1, 1912, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 242,
    related to limiting association placer-mining claims.
      Section 388, act Aug. 1, 1912, ch. 269, Sec. 2, 37 Stat. 243,
    related to restrictions on power of attorney to locate placer-
    mining claims.
      Section 389, act Aug. 1, 1912, ch. 269, Sec. 3, 37 Stat. 243,
    related to restrictions on placer locations.
      Section 390, acts Aug. 1, 1912, ch. 269, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 243;
    Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 442, 43 Stat. 1118, related to area and shape of
    placer claims.
      Section 391, act Aug. 1, 1912, ch. 269, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 243,
    related to placer locations in violation of law.
      See, now, sections 35 to 37 of Title 30, Mineral Lands and
    Mining.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 392                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 392. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 13, 30 Stat. 415, which
    provided for reciprocity with Canada as to mining rights, was
    omitted in view of the admission of Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 395 to 405                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 395 to 405. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 395 to 405, relating to the Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of the admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 395, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 1, 36 Stat. 848,
    authorized a miners' labor lien on output, and provided for its
    priority.
      Section 396, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 36 Stat. 848,
    required the filing of the claim of the lien, and prescribed the
    form of the claim.
      Section 397, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 3, 36 Stat. 849,
    directed the recorder to record claims of lien.
      Section 398, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 4, 36 Stat. 849,
    specified the duration of the lien.
      Section 399, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 849,
    prescribed the procedure for foreclosure of the liens.
      Section 400, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 6, 36 Stat. 849,
    authorized defects in lien notice or in proceedings to foreclose to
    be cured by amendment.
      Section 401, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 7, 36 Stat. 850,
    prescribed certain procedures in proceedings to foreclose liens,
    and permitted intervention by adverse claimants.
      Section 402, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 8, 36 Stat. 850,
    provided for joinder of plaintiffs, consolidation of actions, and
    waiver of lien.
      Section 403, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 9, 36 Stat. 850,
    required judgment for claimants, and provided for its enforcement.
      Section 404, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 10, 36 Stat. 851,
    permitted appeals from final judgments of justices of the peace in
    actions under sections 395 to 405 of this title.
      Section 405, act June 25, 1910, ch. 422, Sec. 11, 36 Stat. 851,
    prescribed the criminal liability for buying, removing, etc.,
    minerals with notice of lien.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 411 to 423                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 411 to 423. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 411, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 2, 30 Stat. 409,
    which granted railroads rights of way, reserved mineral interests
    therein, and directed posting of schedules of rates, was
    transferred to section 942-1 of Title 43, Public Lands.
      Section 412, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 3, 30 Stat. 410,
    which provided for rights of several roads through canyons, was
    transferred to section 942-2 of Title 43.
      Section 413, acts June 2, 1864, ch. 216, Sec. 3, 13 Stat. 357;
    May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 4, 30 Stat. 410, which granted the
    right of condemnation to railroads, was transferred to section 942-
    3 of Title 43.
      Section 414, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 4, 30 Stat. 410,
    which related to the effect of filing of the preliminary survey,
    was transferred to section 942-4 of Title 43.
      Section 415, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 5, 30 Stat. 410,
    which required railroads to file maps of the location of their
    roads, was transferred to section 942-5 of Title 43.
      Section 416, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 6, 30 Stat. 411,
    which provided for right of way for wagon roads, wire rope, aerial,
    or other tramways, reserved mineral interests, and limited tolls,
    was transferred to section 942-6 of Title 43.
      Section 417, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 7, 30 Stat. 412,
    which made sections 411 to 419, 421, 423, and 461 to 465 of this
    title inapplicable to military parks, Indian, and other
    reservations, was transferred to section 942-7 of Title 43.
      Section 418, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 8, 30 Stat. 412,
    which reserved the right of repeal or amendment, was transferred to
    section 942-8 of Title 43.
      Section 419, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 9, 30 Stat. 413,
    which related to the map of location of roads, was transferred to
    section 942-9 of Title 43.
      Section 420, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 848, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 898,
    which related to public lands within highway, telephone, and
    pipeline withdrawals and authorized amendment of land description
    of claim or entry on adjoining lands, was transferred to section
    971a of Title 43.
      Section 420a, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 848, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 898,
    which permitted the Secretary to sell restored lands and granted
    preference rights, was transferred to section 971b of Title 43.
      Section 420b, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 848, Sec. 3, 70 Stat. 898,
    which related to utilization or occupancy of easements, was
    transferred to section 971c of Title 43.
      Section 420c, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 848, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 898,
    which related to the effect on valid existing rights, was
    transferred to section 971d of Title 43.
      Section 420d, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 848, Sec. 5, as added June
    11, 1960, Pub. L. 86-512, 74 Stat. 207, which defined "restored
    lands" for purposes of sections 420 to 420c of this title, was
    transferred to section 971e of Title 43.
      Section 421, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 11, 30 Stat. 414;
    Oct. 28, 1921, ch. 114, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 208; Mar. 3, 1925, ch.
    462, 43 Stat. 1144, which authorized the Secretary to sell timber
    on public lands, was transferred to section 615a of Title 16,
    Conservation.
      Section 422, acts Feb. 1, 1905, ch. 288, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 628;
    June 5, 1920, ch. 235, Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 917, which permitted export
    of timber pulpwood and wood pulp, was transferred to section 615b
    of Title 16.
      Section 423, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 11, 30 Stat. 414;
    June 15, 1938, ch. 427, 52 Stat. 699, which authorized the
    Secretary to permit cutting and use of timber by settlers,
    residents, miners, etc., was transferred to section 607a of Title
    16.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 431                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 431. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts June 6, 1900, ch. 796, 31 Stat. 658; Apr. 28, 1904,
    ch. 1772, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 526, which extended coal land laws of
    the United States to Alaska, was omitted in view of the admission
    of Alaska into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 432                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 432. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 432. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-252, Sec. 1, Sept. 9, 1959, 73 Stat.
      490.
      Section, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 741,
    related to survey of coal lands in Alaska. See section 201 et seq.
    of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 433                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 433. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 433. Repealed. Pub. L. 85-508, Sec. 20, July 7, 1958, 72 Stat.
      351.
      Section, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 2, 38 Stat. 742,
    related to reservation of coal lands in Alaska. See section 201 et
    seq. of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 434 to 445                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 434 to 445. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 434 to 445. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-252, Sec. 1, Sept. 9, 1959,
      73 Stat. 490.
      Section 434, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 3, 38 Stat. 742,
    related to division of unreserved lands into leasing blocks or
    tracts and to leases. See sections 181, 201(a), and 202 of Title
    30, Mineral Lands and Mining.
      Section 435, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 4, 38 Stat. 742,
    related to lease of additional lands. See sections 203 and 204 of
    Title 30.
      Section 436, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 5, 38 Stat. 743,
    related to consolidation of leases. See section 205 of Title 30.
      Section 437, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 9, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to the term of the lease. See section 207 of Title 30.
      Section 438, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 9, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to rents and royalties payable to the United States by
    lessees. See section 207 of Title 30.
      Section 438a, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 19, as added June
    6, 1934, ch. 405, 48 Stat. 909, related to suspension of rentals
    during suspension of operation or production. See section 209 of
    Title 30.
      Section 439, acts Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 9, 38 Stat. 744;
    July 10, 1957, Pub. L. 85-88, Sec. 1, 71 Stat. 282; July 7, 1958,
    Pub. L. 85-508, Sec. 28(a), 72 Stat. 351, related to distribution
    of net profits, bonuses, royalties, rentals, and other payments.
    See section 191 of Title 30.
      Section 440, acts Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 6, 38 Stat. 743;
    Feb. 21, 1944, ch. 18, 58 Stat. 18, related to property leased,
    limitation of amount, and forfeiture of excess. See sections
    184(a), (g), and (h) and 201 et seq. of Title 30.
      Section 441, acts Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 7, 38 Stat. 743;
    Feb. 21, 1944, ch. 18, 58 Stat. 18, provided for punishment when
    exceeding authorized interest.
      Section 442, acts Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 8, 38 Stat, 743;
    Feb. 21, 1944, ch. 18, 58 Stat. 18, prescribed criminal liability
    of officers and agents of corporations or associations violating
    the law.
      Section 443, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 8a, 38 Stat. 743,
    related to forfeiture of lease for violation of law. See section
    184(k) of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining.
      Section 444, acts Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 3, 38 Stat. 742;
    Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 152, 41 Stat. 1363, related to prospecting
    permits and leases to prospectors. See section 201(b) of Title 30.
      Section 445, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 10, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to coal for local and domestic needs. See section 208 of
    Title 30.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 445a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 445a. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act July 19, 1932, ch. 513, 47 Stat. 707, which
    permitted purchase of coal from two or more mines adjacent to the
    Alaska Railroad, was transferred to section 208a of Title 30,
    Mineral Lands and Mining, and subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 97-
    468, title VI, Sec. 615(a)(3), Jan. 14, 1983, 96 Stat. 2578.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 446 to 452                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 446 to 452. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 446 to 452. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-252, Sec. 1, Sept. 9, 1959,
      73 Stat. 490.
      Section 446, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 11, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to reservation by the United States in leases, entries,
    etc.
      Section 447, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 12, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to assignment or subletting of leases.
      Section 448, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 13, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to possession of lessee as possession of the United States.
      Section 449, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 14, 38 Stat. 744,
    related to forfeiture or cancellation of leases.
      Section 450, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 16, 38 Stat. 745,
    related to statements, representations, and reports.
      Section 451, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 17, 38 Stat. 745,
    related to promulgation of rules and regulations. See section 189
    of Title 30, Mineral Lands and Mining.
      Section 452, act Oct. 20, 1914, ch. 330, Sec. 15, 38 Stat. 745,
    related to limitation on disposal of coal lands. See section 193 of
    Title 30.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 453                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 453. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act May 28, 1908, ch. 211, Sec. 2, 35 Stat. 424, which
    related to preference right of United States to purchase of coal
    for Army and Navy, was transferred to section 193a of Title 30,
    Mineral Lands and Mining.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 455 to 456h                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 455 to 456h. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 455 to 456h, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 455, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 1, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat. 623,
    related to definitions as used in sections 455 to 455e of this
    title.
      Section 455a, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 2, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat.
    623, granted United States title to the territory of Alaska.
      Section 455b, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 3, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat.
    624, related to lands subject to the Submerged Lands Act.
      Section 455c, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 4, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat.
    625, related to rights retained by the United States.
      Section 455d, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 5, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat.
    625, provided that prior claims be unaffected by sections 455 to
    455e of this title.
      Section 455e, Pub. L. 85-303, Sec. 6, Sept. 7, 1957, 71 Stat.
    625, provided for a survey of community boundaries and
    establishment of pierhead lines.
      Section 456, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 1, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 322,
    related to definitions as used in sections 456 to 456h of this
    title.
      Section 456a, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 2, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 323,
    related to lease of oil and gas deposits in lands beneath nontidal
    navigable waters.
      Section 456b, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 3, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 323,
    related to deposits of receipts and use of moneys.
      Section 456c, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 4, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 323,
    related to determination of nontidal navigable water.
      Section 456d, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 5, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 323,
    related to rights to take natural resources from waters and to
    navigational servitudes.
      Section 456e, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 6, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 323,
    granted preference rights.
      Section 456f, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 7, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 324,
    declared the effect on transferred lands.
      Section 456g, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 9, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat. 324,
    related to venue of proceedings affecting leases.
      Section 456h, Pub. L. 85-505, Sec. 11, July 3, 1958, 72 Stat.
    325, related to promulgation of rules and regulations.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 461 to 466                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 461 to 466. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 461, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413;
    Mar. 3, 1927, ch. 323, 44 Stat. 1364; May 26, 1934, ch. 357, 48
    Stat. 809; Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-725, Sec. 3, 72 Stat. 730,
    which related to rights to purchase for trade or manufacture lands
    in the Territories, prescribed the price and limit of acreage, and
    limited the amount of land permitted to be purchased, was
    transferred to section 687a of Title 43, Public Lands, and was
    subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a),
    Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 461a, act Apr. 29, 1950, ch. 137, Sec. 5, 64 Stat. 95,
    which required the filing of notices of claim for the purchase of
    land under section 461 of this title, was transferred to section
    687a-1 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-
    579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 462, acts May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413;
    Aug. 3, 1955, ch. 496, Sec. 2, 69 Stat. 444, which prohibited entry
    on lands on navigable waters, was transferred to section 687a-2 of
    Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title
    VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 463, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413,
    which related to several claimants of same tract, was transferred
    to section 687a-3 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by
    Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat.
    2789.
      Section 464, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413,
    which reserved landing places along water front for natives, was
    transferred to section 687a-4 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, Sec. 704(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat.
    2792.
      Section 465, act May 14, 1898, ch. 299, Sec. 10, 30 Stat. 413,
    which excepted certain islands from the operation of sections 411
    to 419, 421, 423, and 461 to 464 of this title, was transferred to
    section 687a-5 of Title 43, and was subsequently repealed by Pub.
    L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2789.
      Section 466, acts Mar. 3, 1891, ch. 561, Sec. 13, 26 Stat. 1100;
    Mar. 3, 1925, ch. 462, 43 Stat. 1144, which related to surveys for
    the purchase of land under sections 461 to 466 of this title, was
    transferred to section 687a-6 of Title 43, and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 94-579, title VII, Sec. 703(a), Oct. 21, 1976,
    90 Stat. 2789.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 471 to 471o                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 471 to 471o. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 471, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 1452,
    which declared Congressional policy towards grazing districts and
    privileges, was transferred to section 316 of Title 43, Public
    Lands.
      Section 471a, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 1452,
    which defined terms "person", "district", "Secretary", and
    "lessee", was transferred to section 316a of Title 43.
      Section 471b, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1452,
    which gave the Secretary the power to establish grazing districts,
    was transferred to section 316b of Title 43.
      Section 471c, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 4, 44 Stat. 1452,
    which provided for the alteration of grazing district, was
    transferred to section 316c of Title 43.
      Section 471d, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 5, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which provided for the giving of notice of the establishment of
    grazing districts, was transferred to section 316d of Title 43.
      Section 471e, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 6, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which authorized the giving of preferences in considering the
    applications to lease grazing lands, was transferred to section
    316e of Title 43.
      Section 471f, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 7, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which provided for the terms and conditions of leases for grazing
    lands, was transferred to section 316f of Title 43.
      Section 471g, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 8, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which authorized the Secretary to determine for each lease, the
    grazing fee, was transferred to section 316g of Title 43.
      Section 471h, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 9, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which provided for the disposition of receipts for grazing fees,
    was transferred to section 316h of Title 43.
      Section 471i, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 10, 44 Stat. 1453,
    which provided for the assignment of leases by the lessee, was
    transferred to section 316i of Title 43.
      Section 471j, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 11, 44 Stat 1454,
    which provided for improvements by the lessee of any area included
    within the provisions of his lease, was transferred to section 316j
    of Title 43.
      Section 471k, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 12, 44 Stat. 1454,
    which prohibited the grazing of animals on grazing district land
    without a lease or other permission and set the penalty for
    violation of the section, was transferred to section 316k of Title
    43.
      Section 471l, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 13, 44 Stat. 1454,
    which authorized the Secretary of the Interior to establish stock
    driveways and allow free grazing, was transferred to section 316l
    of Title 43.
      Section 471m, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 14, 44 Stat. 1454,
    which made provision for hearing and appeals from decisions of
    Interior Department employees regarding grazing privileges, was
    transferred to section 316m of Title 43.
      Section 471n, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 15, 44 Stat. 1455,
    which authorized the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate rules
    and regulations necessary to the administration of sections 471 to
    471o of this title, appoint employees, make expenditures, and
    investigate, experiment, and improve the reindeer industry and
    cooperate in the development of plant and animal life, was
    transferred to section 316n of Title 43.
      Section 471o, act Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 513, Sec. 16, 44 Stat. 1455,
    which continued in force and effect laws applicable to lands or
    resources in the same manner as they had applied prior to enactment
    of sections 471 to 471o of this title with regard to ingress and
    egress upon lands for any authorized purpose including prospecting
    for and mining extraction of minerals, was transferred to section
    316o of Title 43.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 472, 472a                                      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 472, 472a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 472, 472a. Repealed. Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, Sec. 1(126), 65
      Stat. 706.
      Section 472, act Mar. 27, 1928, ch. 251, Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 371,
    related to disposition of abandoned military reservations in
    Alaska, including signal corps stations and rights-of-way.
      Section 472a, act Mar. 27, 1928, ch. 251, Sec. 2, 45 Stat. 371,
    related to promulgation of rules and regulations in connection with
    abandoned military reservations in Alaska.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 473 to 484d                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 473 to 484d. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 473 to 484d, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 473, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 879,
    established the Alaska militia.
      Section 474, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 879,
    exempted from militia service all persons exempted by laws of the
    United States, judges of several courts of Territory, and members
    and officers of Alaska Territorial Legislature.
      Section 475, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 3, 55 Stat. 879,
    established Alaska National Guard.
      Section 476, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 4, 55 Stat. 879,
    gave Governor of Territory of Alaska as ex officio commander of
    militia, like command of Alaska National Guard while not in Federal
    service.
      Section 477, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 5, 55 Stat. 880,
    provided for appointment of Adjutant General of Territory of
    Alaska.
      Section 478, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 6, 55 Stat. 880,
    provided for ratification and confirmation of existing military
    forces.
      Section 479, act Dec. 31, 1941, ch. 644, Sec. 7, 55 Stat. 880,
    gave Governor power to organize a Territorial Guard during time
    that Alaska National Guard might be under Federal service.
      Section 480, acts July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 101, 64
    Stat. 344; Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), (7), (9),
    69 Stat. 637, 638, authorized government of Alaska to create a
    public corporate authority to undertake slum clearance and urban
    redevelopment projects.
      Section 480a, acts July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 102, 64
    Stat. 344; Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), 69 Stat.
    637, authorized government of Alaska to assist slum clearance and
    urban redevelopment through cash donations, loans, conveyances of
    real and personal property, facilities and services.
      Section 480b, act July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 103, 64
    Stat. 345, ratified all legislation enacted prior thereto by
    Legislature of Territory of Alaska.
      Section 481, acts July 21, 1941, ch. 311, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 601;
    July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title II, Sec. 201(a), 64 Stat. 345,
    authorized Legislature to create public corporate authorities to
    undertake slum clearance and projects to provide dwelling
    accommodations for families of low income and for persons (and
    their families) engaged in national-defense activities.
      Section 482, acts July 21, 1941, ch. 311, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 602;
    July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title II, Sec. 201(a), 64 Stat. 345,
    authorized Legislature of Territory of Alaska to provide for
    appointment of Commissioners.
      Section 483, acts July 21, 1941, ch. 311, Sec. 3, 55 Stat. 602;
    July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title II, Sec. 201(a), 64 Stat. 345,
    authorized Legislature of Territory of Alaska to issue bonds or
    other obligations with such security and in such manner as the
    legislature may provide.
      Section 483a, act July 21, 1941, ch. 311, Sec. 4, as added July
    18, 1950, ch. 466, title II, Sec. 201(a), 64 Stat. 345, ratified
    all prior acts enacted by Legislature of Territory of Alaska.
      Section 483b, act July 21, 1941, ch. 311, Sec. 5, as added July
    18, 1950, ch. 466, title II, Sec. 201(a), 64 Stat. 345, granted
    additional powers to Legislature of Territory of Alaska.
      Section 484, acts Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 58;
    July 14, 1952, ch. 723, Sec. 7, 66 Stat. 603, authorized
    Legislature of Territory of Alaska to establish Alaska Housing
    Authority.
      Section 484a, act Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 59,
    authorized Housing and Home Finance Agency to provide technical
    advice and information and to cooperate with and assist the Alaska
    Housing Authority.
      Section 484b, act Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 5, 63 Stat. 69,
    provided for retention of permanent housing by the Housing and Home
    Finance Administrator.
      Section 484c, act Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 6, 63 Stat. 60,
    authorized transfer of real or personal property of other
    Government departments or agencies to Alaska Housing Authority.
      Section 484d, act June 27, 1934, ch. 847, title II, Sec. 214, as
    added Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(a), 63 Stat. 57, and amended,
    related to insurance of mortgages on property in Alaska. See
    section 1715d of Title 12, Banks and Banking.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 484e                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 484e. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 484e. Repealed. Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649, title II, Sec. 205, 68
      Stat. 622.
      Section, act Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(b), 63 Stat. 58,
    related to real-estate loans and purchase of insured mortgages,
    with respect to properties in Alaska, by Federal National Mortgage
    Association.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 485 to 486j                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 485 to 486j. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 485 to 486, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 485, acts May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 227;
    Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-726, title XIV, Sec. 1402(d)(1), 72 Stat.
    807, authorized Administrator of Civil Aeronautics to construct,
    protect, operate, improve, and maintain within Territory of Alaska
    a public airport at or near Anchorage and a public airport at or
    near Fairbanks.
      Section 485a, act May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 278,
    authorized Administrator of Civil Aeronautics to acquire by
    purchase, lease, condemnation or otherwise such lands and
    appurtenances necessary for construction, protection, maintenance,
    improvement, and operation of said airports.
      Section 485b, act May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 3, 62 Stat. 278,
    authorized Administrator to acquire rights-of-way or easements for
    roads, trails, pipe lines, power lines and other similar facilities
    necessary for operation of airports, and to construct any public
    highways and bridge to whatever airport locations may be selected.
      Section 485c, acts May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 4, 62 Stat. 278;
    Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-726, title XIV, Sec. 1402(d)(2), 72 Stat.
    807, set out powers and duties of Administrator.
      Section 485d, acts May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 5, 62 Stat. 278;
    Oct. 10, 1951, ch. 457, 65 Stat. 371; July 3, 1958, Pub. L. 85-503,
    72 Stat. 321; Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-726, title XIV, Sec.
    1402(d)(3), 72 Stat. 807, empowered Administrator of Federal
    Aviation Agency to lease space or property within or upon airports.
      Section 485e, act May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 6, 62 Stat. 278,
    authorized Administrator to contract with any person for
    performance of services at or upon airports.
      Section 485f, acts May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 7, 62 Stat. 278;
    Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, Sec. 2(25), 65 Stat. 707, authorized
    transfer of lands, building, property or equipment by other
    agencies of Federal Government to Administrator.
      Section 485g, act May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 8, 62 Stat. 278,
    provided for penalties for violations of any rule, regulation or
    order issued by Administrator.
      Section 485h, act May 28, 1948, ch. 354, Sec. 9, 62 Stat. 279,
    prescribed definitions used in sections 485 to 485h of this title,
    should be definitions assigned by the Civil Aeronautics Act of
    1938, as amended.
      Section 486, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 627,
    declared Congressional purpose of sections 486 to 486j of this
    title was to foster settlement and increase permanent residents of
    Alaska.
      Section 486a, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 627,
    authorized Secretary of the Interior to accept applications for
    public works.
      Section 486b, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 627,
    authorized Secretary to include works from other Federal agencies
    in the public works program.
      Section 486c, acts Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 5, 63 Stat. 628;
    Aug. 30, 1957, Pub. L. 85-233, Sec. 1, 71 Stat. 515; Dec. 23, 1963,
    Pub. L. 88-229, 77 Stat. 471, empowered Secretary to enter into
    agreement with public work applicant.
      Section 486d, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 6, 63 Stat. 628,
    set out authority and powers of applicants for public work.
      Section 486e, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 7, 63 Stat. 629,
    provided for cooperation between other Federal agencies and
    Secretary, and the transfer of jurisdiction from other Federal
    agencies to Secretary.
      Section 486f, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 8, 63 Stat. 629,
    authorized Secretary to provide public works through the award of
    contracts.
      Section 486g, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 9, 63 Stat. 629,
    directed that all moneys received by Secretary should be covered
    into Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
      Section 486h, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 10, 63 Stat. 629,
    authorized Secretary to utilize and act through other Federal
    agencies.
      Section 486i, act Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 11, 63 Stat. 624,
    provided for appropriations to carry out purposes of sections 486
    to 486j.
      Section 486j, acts Aug. 24, 1949, ch. 504, Sec. 12, 63 Stat. 629;
    July 15, 1954, ch. 510, 68 Stat. 483, directed that authority of
    Secretary under sections 486 to 486j of this title shall terminate
    on June 30, 1959.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 487 to 487b                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 487 to 487b. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 487, act Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 682, Sec. 1, 69 Stat. 618,
    which authorized Secretary to make investigations of projects for
    conservation, development, and utilization of water resources of
    Alaska, was transferred to section 1962d-12 of Title 42, The Public
    Health and Welfare.
      Section 487a, act Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 682, Sec. 2, 69 Stat. 618,
    which provided for solicitation of views and recommendations by
    Governor of Alaska or his representative, to Secretary and for
    transmittal of Secretary's report to Congress, was transferred to
    section 1962d-13 of Title 42.
      Section 487b, act Aug. 9, 1955, ch. 682, Sec. 3, 69 Stat. 618,
    which authorized appropriation up to $250,000 in any one year, was
    transferred to section 1962d-14 of Title 42.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 488 to 488f                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 2 - ALASKA

-HEAD-
    Secs. 488 to 488f. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 488 to 488f, relating to Territory of Alaska, were
    omitted in view of admission of Alaska into the Union.
      Section 488, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 149,
    authorized Territory of Alaska to borrow for public improvements
    and to issue bonds of Territory for such borrowing.
      Section 488a, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 149,
    placed limitations on Territory in contracting debts.
      Section 488b, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 3, 70 Stat. 150,
    made provisions for type of land to be issued, scheduling of
    maturity of bonds, payment of bonds, redemption of bond, and
    refunding.
      Section 488c, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 150,
    authorized the Territory to borrow on the credit of the Territory
    and to issue certificates of indebtedness.
      Section 488d, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 5, 70 Stat. 150,
    provided for issuance of bonds and certificates as negotiable
    instruments.
      Section 488e, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 6, 70 Stat. 150,
    authorized payment of interest on principal of bonds and
    certificates of indebtedness as they fall due.
      Section 488f, act May 10, 1956, ch. 248, Sec. 7, 70 Stat. 150,
    authorized guarantee of payment on municipality and school and
    public utility district bonds.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
                            CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII                        

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    491 to 636. Repealed or Omitted.                                  

                              DISTRICT COURT                          
    641 to 644. Repealed.                                             
    644a.       Jurisdiction of district court of cases arising on or
                 within Midway, Wake, Johnston, Sand, etc., Islands;
                 laws applicable to jury trials.                      
    645 to 724. Repealed or Omitted.                                  

                            ADMISSION AS STATE                        
      Hawaii was admitted into the Union on August 21, 1959, on
    issuance of Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat.
    c74, as required by sections 1 and 7(c) of Pub. L. 86-3, Mar. 18,
    1959, 73 Stat. 4, set out below.

                             HAWAII STATEHOOD                         
      Pub. L. 86-3, Mar. 18, 1959, 73 Stat. 4, as amended, provided:
      "[Sec. 1. Declaration: acceptance, ratification, and confirmation
    of Constitution.] That, subject to the provisions of this Act, and
    upon issuance of the proclamation required by section 7(c) of this
    Act, the State of Hawaii is hereby declared to be a State of the
    United States of America, is declared admitted into the Union on an
    equal footing with the other States in all respects whatever, and
    the constitution formed pursuant to the provisions of the Act of
    the Territorial Legislature of Hawaii entitled 'An Act to provide
    for a constitutional convention, the adoption of a State
    constitution, and the forwarding of the same to the Congress of the
    United States, and appropriating money therefor', approved May 20,
    1949 (Act 334, Session Laws of Hawaii, 1949), and adopted by a vote
    of the people of Hawaii in the election held on November 7, 1950,
    is hereby found to be republican in form and in conformity with the
    Constitution of the United States and the principles of the
    Declaration of Independence, and is hereby accepted, ratified, and
    confirmed.
      "Sec. 2. [Territory.] The State of Hawaii shall consist of all
    the islands, together with their appurtenant reefs and territorial
    waters, included in the Territory of Hawaii on the date of
    enactment of this Act [March 18, 1959], except the atoll known as
    Palmyra Island, together with its appurtenant reefs and territorial
    waters, but said State shall not be deemed to include the Midway
    Islands, Johnston Island, Sand Island (offshore from Johnston
    Island), or Kingman Reef, together with their appurtenant reefs and
    territorial waters.
      "Sec. 3. [Constitution.] The constitution of the State of Hawaii
    shall always be republican in form and shall not be repugnant to
    the Constitution of the United States and the principles of the
    Declaration of Independence.
      "Sec. 4. [Compact with United States.] As a compact with the
    United States relating to the management and disposition of the
    Hawaiian home lands, the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, as
    amended, shall be adopted as a provision of the Constitution of
    said State, as provided in section 7, subsection (b) of this Act,
    subject to amendment or repeal only with the consent of the United
    States, and in no other manner: Provided, That (1) sections 202,
    213, 219, 220, 222, 224, and 225 and other provisions relating to
    administration, and paragraph (2) of section 204, sections 206 and
    212, and other provisions relating to the powers and duties of
    officers other than those charged with the administration of said
    Act, may be amended in the constitution, or in the manner required
    for State legislation, but the Hawaiian homeloan fund, the Hawaiian
    home-operating fund, and the Hawaiian home-development fund shall
    not be reduced or impaired by any such amendment, whether made in
    the constitution or in the manner required for State legislation,
    and the encumbrances authorized to be placed on Hawaiian home lands
    by officers other than those charged with the administration of
    said Act, shall not be increased, except with the consent of the
    United States; (2) that any amendment to increase the benefits to
    lessees of Hawaiian home lands may be made in the constitution, or
    in the manner required for State legislation, but the
    qualifications of lessees shall not be changed except with the
    consent of the United States; and (3) that all proceeds and income
    from the 'available lands', as defined by said Act, shall be used
    only in carrying out the provisions of said Act.
      "Sec. 5. [Title to property; land grants; reservation of lands;
    public school support; submerged lands.] (a) Except as provided in
    subsection (c) of this section, the State of Hawaii and its
    political subdivisions, as the case may be, shall succeed to the
    title of the Territory of Hawaii and its subdivisions in those
    lands and other properties in which the Territory and its
    subdivisions now hold title.
      "(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) and (d) of this
    section, the United States grants to the State of Hawaii, effective
    upon its admission into the Union, the United States' title to all
    the public lands and other public property, and to all lands
    defined as "available lands" by section 203 of the Hawaiian Homes
    Commission Act, 1920, as amended, within the boundaries of the
    State of Hawaii, title to which is held by the United States
    immediately prior to its admission into the Union. The grant hereby
    made shall be in lieu of any and all grants provided for new States
    by provisions of law other than this Act, and such grants shall not
    extend to the State of Hawaii.
      "(c) Any lands and other properties that, on the date Hawaii is
    admitted into the Union, are set aside pursuant to law for the use
    of the United States under any (1) Act of Congress, (2) Executive
    order, (3) proclamation of the President, or (4) proclamation of
    the Governor of Hawaii shall remain the property of the United
    States subject only to the limitations, if any, imposed under (1),
    (2), (3), or (4), as the case may be.
      "(d) Any public lands or other public property that is conveyed
    to the State of Hawaii by subsection (b) of this section but that,
    immediately prior to the admission of said State into the Union, is
    controlled by the United States pursuant to permit, license, of
    permission, written or verbal, from the Territory of Hawaii or any
    department thereof may, at any time during the five years following
    the admission of Hawaii into the Union, be set aside by Act of
    Congress or by Executive order of the President, made pursuant to
    law, for the use of the United States, and the lands or property so
    set aside shall, subject only to valid rights then existing, be the
    property of the United States.
      "(e) Within five years from the date Hawaii is admitted into the
    Union, each Federal agency having control over any land or property
    that is retained by the United States pursuant to subsections (c)
    and (d) of this section shall report to the President the facts
    regarding its continued need for such land or property, and if the
    President determines that the land or property is no longer needed
    by the United States it shall be conveyed to the State of Hawaii.
      "(f) The lands granted to the State of Hawaii by subsection (b)
    of this section and public lands retained by the United States
    under subsections (c) and (d) and later conveyed to the State under
    subsection (e), together with the proceeds from the sale or other
    disposition of any such lands and the income therefrom, shall be
    held by said State as a public trust for the support of the public
    schools and other public educational institutions, for the
    betterment of the conditions of native Hawaiians, as defined in the
    Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended, for the
    development of farm and home ownership on as widespread a basis as
    possible for the making of public improvements, and for the
    provision of lands for public use. Such lands, proceeds, and income
    shall be managed and disposed of for one or more of the foregoing
    purposes in such manner as the constitution and laws of said State
    may provide, and their use for any other object shall constitute a
    breach of trust for which suit may be brought by the United States.
    The schools and other educational institutions supported, in whole
    or in part, out of such public trust shall forever remain under the
    exclusive control of said State; and no part of the proceeds or
    income from the lands granted under this Act shall be used for the
    support of any sectarian or denominational school, college, or
    university.
      "(g) As used in this Act, the term 'lands and other properties'
    includes public lands and other public property, and the term
    'public lands and other public property' means, and is limited to,
    the lands and properties that were ceded to the United States by
    the Republic of Hawaii under the joint resolution of annexation
    approved July 7, 1898 (30 Stat. 750), or that have been acquired in
    exchange for lands or properties so ceded.
      "(h) All laws of the United States reserving to the United States
    the free use or enjoyment of property which vests in or is conveyed
    to the State of Hawaii or its political subdivisions pursuant to
    subsection (a), (b), or (e) of this section or reserving the right
    to alter, amend, or repeal laws relating thereto shall cease to be
    effective upon the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union.
      "(i) The Submerged Lands Act of 1953 (Public Law 31, Eighty-third
    Congress, first session; 67 Stat. 29) and the Outer Continental
    Shelf Lands Act of 1953 (Public Law 212, Eighty-third Congress,
    first session, 67 Stat. 462) shall be applicable to the State of
    Hawaii, and the said State shall have the same rights as do
    existing States thereunder. (As amended Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 41,
    July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 422.)
      "Sec. 6. [Certification by President; proclamation for
    elections.] As soon as possible after the enactment of this Act, it
    shall be the duty of the President of the United States to certify
    such fact to the Governor of the Territory of Hawaii. Thereupon the
    Governor of the Territory shall, within thirty days after receipt
    of the official notification of such approval, issue his
    proclamation for the elections, as hereinafter provided, for
    officers of all State elective offices provided for by the
    constitution of the proposed State of Hawaii, and for two Senators
    and one Representative in Congress. In the first election of
    Senators from said State the two senatorial offices shall be
    separately identified and designated, and no person may be a
    candidate for both offices. No identification or designation of
    either of the two senatorial offices, however, shall refer to or be
    taken to refer to the term of that office, nor shall any such
    identification or designation in any way impair the privilege of
    the Senate to determine the class to which each of the Senators
    elected shall be assigned.
      "Sec. 7. [Election of officers; date; propositions; certification
    of voting results; proclamation by President.] (a) The proclamation
    of the Governor of Hawaii required by section 6 shall provide for
    the holding of a primary election and a general election and at
    such elections the officers required to be elected as provided in
    section 6 shall be chosen by the people. Such elections shall be
    held, and the qualifications of voters thereat shall be, as
    prescribed by the constitution of the proposed State of Hawaii for
    the election of members of the proposed State legislature. The
    returns thereof shall be made and certified in such manner as the
    constitution of the proposed State of Hawaii may prescribe. The
    Governor of Hawaii shall certify the results of said elections, as
    so ascertained, to the President of the United States.
      "(b) At an election designated by proclamation of the Governor of
    Hawaii, which may be either the primary or the general election
    held pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, or a Territorial
    general election, or a special election, there shall be submitted
    to the electors qualified to vote in said election, for adoption or
    rejection, the following propositions:
      " '(1) Shall Hawaii immediately be admitted into the Union as a
    State?
      " '(2) The boundaries of the State of Hawaii shall be as
    prescribed in the Act of Congress approved __________, (Date of
    approval of this Act) and all claims of this State to any areas of
    land or sea outside the boundaries so prescribed are hereby
    irrevocably relinquished to the United States.
      " '(3) All provisions of the Act of Congress approved __________
    (Date of approval of this Act) reserving rights or powers to the
    United States, as well as those prescribing the terms or conditions
    of the grants of lands or other property therein made to the State
    of Hawaii are consented to fully by said State and its people.'
      "In the event the foregoing propositions are adopted at said
    election by a majority of the legal votes cast on said State of
    Hawaii, ratified by the people at the election held submission, the
    proposed constitution of the proposed on November 7, 1950, shall be
    deemed amended as follows: Section 1 of article XIII of said
    proposed constitution shall be deemed amended so as to contain the
    language of section 2 of this Act in lieu of any other language;
    article XI shall be deemed to include the provisions of section 4
    of this Act; and section 8 of article XIV shall be deemed amended
    so as to contain the language of the third proposition above stated
    in lieu of any other language, and section 10 of article XVI shall
    be deemed amended by inserting the words 'at which officers for all
    state elective offices provided for by this constitution and two
    Senators and one Representative in Congress shall be nominated and
    elected' in lieu of the words 'at which officers for all state
    elective offices provided for by this constitution shall be
    nominated and elected; but the officers so to be elected shall in
    any event include two Senators and two Representatives to the
    Congress, and unless and until otherwise required by law, said
    Representatives shall be elected at large.'
      "In the event the foregoing propositions are not adopted at said
    election by a majority of the legal votes cast on said submission,
    the provisions of this Act shall cease to be effective.
      "The Governor of Hawaii is hereby authorized and directed to take
    such action as may be necessary or appropriate to insure the
    submission of said propositions to the people. The return of the
    votes cast on said propositions shall be made by the election
    officers directly to the Secretary of Hawaii, who shall certify the
    results of the submission to the Governor. The Governor shall
    certify the results of said submission, as so ascertained, to the
    President of the United States.
      "(c) If the President shall find that the propositions set forth
    in the preceding subsection have been duly adopted by the people of
    Hawaii, the President, upon certification of the returns of the
    election of the officers required to be elected as provided in
    section 6 of this Act, shall thereupon issue his proclamation
    announcing the results of said election as so ascertained. Upon the
    issuance of said proclamation by the President, the State of Hawaii
    shall be deemed admitted into the Union as provided in section 1 of
    this Act.
      "Until the said State is so admitted into the Union, the persons
    holding legislative, executive, and judicial office in, under, or
    by authority of the government of said Territory, and the Delegate
    in Congress thereof, shall continue to discharge the duties of
    their respective offices. Upon the issuance of said proclamation by
    the President of the United States and the admission of the State
    of Hawaii into the Union, the officers elected at said election,
    and qualified under the provisions of the constitution and laws of
    said State, shall proceed to exercise all the functions pertaining
    to their offices in, under, or by authority of the government of
    said State, and officers not required to be elected at said initial
    election shall be selected or continued in office as provided by
    the constitution and laws of said State. The Governor of said State
    shall certify the election of the Senators and Representative in
    the manner required by law, and the said Senators and
    Representative shall be entitled to be admitted to seats in
    Congress and to all the rights and privileges of Senators and
    Representatives of other States in the Congress of the United
    States.
      "Sec. 8. [House of Representatives membership.] The State of
    Hawaii upon its admission into the Union shall be entitled to one
    Representative until the taking effect of the next reapportionment,
    and such Representative shall be in addition to the membership of
    the House of Representatives as now prescribed by law: Provided,
    That such temporary increase in the membership shall not operate to
    either increase or decrease the permanent membership of the House
    of Representatives as prescribed in the Act of August 8, 1911 (37
    Stat. 13), nor shall such temporary increase affect the basis of
    apportionment established by the Act of November 15, 1941 (55 Stat.
    761; 2 U.S.C., sec. 2a), for the Eighty-third Congress and each
    Congress thereafter.
      "Sec. 9. [Judiciary provisions; amendment.] Effective upon the
    admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union - 
        "(a) the United States District Court for the District of
      Hawaii established by and existing under title 28 of the United
      States Code shall thenceforth be a court of the United States
      with judicial power derived from article III, section 1, of the
      Constitution of the United States: Provided, however, That the
      terms of office of the district judges for the district of Hawaii
      then in office shall terminate upon the effective date of this
      section and the President, pursuant to sections 133 and 134 of
      title 28, United States Code, as amended by this Act, shall
      appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, two
      district judges for the said district who shall hold office
      during good behavior;
        "(b) the last paragraph of section 133 of title 28, United
      States Code, is repealed; and
        "(c) subsection (a) of section 134 of title 28, United States
      Code, is amended by striking out the words 'Hawaii and'. The
      second sentence of the same section is amended by striking out
      the words 'Hawaii and', 'six and', and 'respectively'.
      "Sec. 10. [Judicial provisions; amendment.] Effective upon the
    admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union the second
    paragraph of section 451 of title 28, United States Code, is
    amended by striking out the words 'including the district courts of
    the United States for the districts of Hawaii and Puerto Rico,' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'including the United States
    District for the District of Puerto Rico,'.
      "Sec. 11. [Judicial provisions; amendment.] Effective upon the
    admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union - 
        "(a) the last paragraph of section 501 of title 28. United
      States Code, is repealed;
        "(b) the first sentence of subsection (a) of section 504 of
      title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking out at the
      end thereof the words ', except in the district of Hawaii, where
      the term shall be six years';
        "(c) the first sentence of subsection (c) of section 541 of
      title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking out at the
      end thereof the words ', except in the district of Hawaii where
      the term shall be six years'; and
        "(d) subsection (d) of section 541 of title 28, United States
      Code, is repealed.
      "Sec. 12. [Continuation of suits.] No writ, action, indictment,
    cause, or proceeding pending in any court of the Territory of
    Hawaii or in the United States District Court for the District of
    Hawaii shall abate by reason of the admission of said State into
    the Union, but the same shall be transferred to and proceeded with
    in such appropriate State courts as shall be established under the
    constitution of said State, or shall continue in the United States
    District Court for the District of Hawaii, as the nature of the
    case may require. And no writ, action, indictment, cause or
    proceeding shall abate by reason of any change in the courts, but
    shall be proceeded with in the State or United States courts
    according to the laws thereof, respectively. And the appropriate
    State courts shall be the successors of the courts of the Territory
    as to all cases arising within the limits embraced within the
    jurisdiction of such courts, respectively, with full power to
    proceed with the same, and award mesne or final process therein,
    and all the files, records, indictments, and proceedings relating
    to any such writ, action, indictment, cause or proceeding shall be
    transferred to such appropriate State courts and the same shall be
    proceeded with therein in due course of law.
      "All civil causes of action and all criminal offenses which shall
    have arisen or been committed prior to the admission of said State,
    but as to which no writ, action, indictment or proceeding shall be
    pending at the date of such admission, shall be subject to
    prosecution in the appropriate State courts or in the United States
    District Court for the District of Hawaii in like manner, to the
    same extent, and with like right of appellate review, as if said
    State had been created and said State courts had been established
    prior to the accrual of such causes of action or the commission of
    such offenses. The admission of said State shall effect no change
    in the substantive or criminal law governing such causes of action
    and criminal offenses which shall have arisen or been committed;
    and such of said criminal offenses as shall have been committed
    against the laws of the Territory shall be tried and punished by
    the appropriate courts of said State, and such as shall have been
    committed against the laws of the United States shall be tried and
    punished in the United States District Court for the District of
    Hawaii.
      "Sec. 13. [Appeals.] Parties shall have the same rights of appeal
    from and appellate review of final decisions of the United States
    District Court for the District of Hawaii or the Supreme Court of
    the Territory of Hawaii in any case finally decided prior to
    admission of said State into the Union, whether or not an appeal
    therefrom shall have been perfected prior to such admission, and
    the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the
    Supreme Court of the United States shall have the same jurisdiction
    therein, as by law provided prior to admission of said State into
    the Union, and any mandate issued subsequent to the admission of
    said State shall be to the United States District Court for the
    District of Hawaii or a court of the State, as may be appropriate.
    Parties shall have the same rights of appeal from and appellate
    review of all orders, judgments, and decrees of the United States
    District Court for the District of Hawaii and of the Supreme Court
    of the State of Hawaii as successor to the Supreme Court of the
    Territory of Hawaii, in any case pending at the time of admission
    of said State into the Union, and the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and the Supreme Court of the United
    States shall have the same jurisdiction therein, as by law provided
    in any case arising subsequent to the admission of said State into
    the Union.
      "Sec. 14. [Judicial and criminal provisions; amendment.]
    Effective upon the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union -
     
        "(a) title 28, United States Code, section 1252, is amended by
      striking out 'Hawaii and' from the clause relating to courts of
      record;
        "(b) title 28, United States Code, section 1293, is amended by
      striking out the words 'First and Ninth Circuits' and by
      inserting in lieu thereof 'First Circuit', and by striking out
      the words, 'supreme courts of Puerto Rico and Hawaii,
      respectively' and inserting in lieu thereof 'supreme court of
      Puerto Rico';
        "(c) title 28, United States Code, section 1294, as amended, is
      further amended by striking out paragraph (4) thereof and by
      renumbering paragraphs (5) and (6) accordingly;
        "(d) the first paragraph of section 373 of title 28, United
      States Code, as amended, is further amended by striking out the
      words 'United States District Courts for the districts of Hawaii
      or Puerto Rico,' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'United
      States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico,'; and by
      striking out the words 'and any justice of the Supreme Court of
      the Territory of Hawaii': Provided, That the amendments made by
      this subsection shall not affect the rights of any judge or
      justice who may have retired before the effective date of this
      subsection: And provided further, That service as a judge of the
      District Court for the Territory of Hawaii or as a judge of the
      United States District Court for the District of Hawaii or as a
      justice of the Supreme Court of the Territory of Hawaii or as a
      judge of the circuit courts of the Territory of Hawaii shall be
      included in computing under section 371, 372, or 373 of title 28,
      United States Code, the aggregate years of judicial service of
      any person who is in office as a district judge for the District
      of Hawaii on the date of enactment of this Act;
        "(e) section 92 of the act of April 30, 1900 (ch. 339, 31 Stat.
      159), as amended, and the Act of May 29, 1928 (ch. 904, 45 Stat.
      997), as amended, are repealed;
        "(f) section 86 of the Act approved April 30, 1900 (ch. 339, 31
      Stat. 158), as amended, is repealed;
        "(g) section 3771 of title 18, United States Code, as
      heretofore amended, is further amended by striking out from the
      first paragraph of such section the words 'Supreme Courts of
      Hawaii and Puerto Rico' and inserting in lieu thereof the words
      'Supreme Court of Puerto Rico';
        "(h) section 3772 of title 18, United States Code, as
      heretofore amended, is further amended by striking out from the
      first paragraph of such section the words 'Supreme Courts of
      Hawaii and Puerto Rico' and inserting in lieu thereof the words
      'Supreme Court of Puerto Rico';
        "(i) section 91 of title 28, United States Code, as heretofore
      amended, is further amended by inserting after 'Kure Island' and
      before 'Baker Island' the words 'Palmyra Island,'; and
        "(j) the Act of June 15, 1950, (64 Stat. 217; 48 U.S.C., sec.
      644a), is amended by inserting after 'Kure Island' and before
      'Baker Island' the words 'Palmyra Island.'.
      "Sec. 15. [Laws in effect.] All Territorial laws in force in the
    Territory of Hawaii at the time of its admission into the Union
    shall continue in force in the State of Hawaii, except as modified
    or changed by this Act or by the constitution of the State, and
    shall be subject to repeal or amendment by the Legislature of the
    State of Hawaii, except as provided in section 4 of this Act with
    respect to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended; and
    the laws of the United States shall have the same force and effect
    within the said State as elsewhere within the United States:
    Provided, That, except as herein otherwise provided, a Territorial
    law enacted by the Congress shall be terminated two years after the
    date of admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union or upon the
    effective date of any law enacted by the State of Hawaii which
    amends or repeals it, whichever may occur first. As used in this
    section, the term 'Territorial laws' includes (in addition to laws
    enacted by the Territorial Legislature of Hawaii) all laws or parts
    thereof enacted by the Congress the validity of which is dependent
    solely upon the authority of the Congress to provide for the
    government of Hawaii prior to its admission into the Union, and the
    term 'laws of the United States' includes all laws or parts thereof
    enacted by the Congress that (1) apply to or within Hawaii at the
    time of its admission into the Union, (2) are not 'Territorial
    laws' as defined in this paragraph, and (3) are not in conflict
    with any other provision of this Act.
      "Sec. 16. [Hawaii National Park; military and naval lands; civil
    and criminal jurisdiction.] (a) Notwithstanding the admission of
    the State of Hawaii into the Union, the United States shall
    continue to have sole and exclusive jurisdiction over the area
    which may then or thereafter be included in Hawaii National Park,
    saving, however, to the State of Hawaii the same rights as are
    reserved to the Territory of Hawaii by section 1 of the Act of
    April 19, 1930 (46 Stat. 227), and saving, further, to persons then
    or thereafter residing within such area the right to vote at all
    elections held within the political subdivisions where they
    respectively reside. Upon the admission of said State all
    references to the Territory of Hawaii in said Act or in other laws
    relating to Hawaii National Park shall be deemed to refer to the
    State of Hawaii. Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed
    to affect the ownership and control by the United States of any
    lands or other property within Hawaii National Park which may now
    belong to, or which may hereafter be acquired by, the United
    States.
      "(b) Notwithstanding the admission of the State of Hawaii into
    the Union, authority is reserved in the United States, subject to
    the proviso hereinafter set forth, for the exercise by the Congress
    of the United States of the power of exclusive legislation, as
    provided by article I, section 8, clause 17, of the Constitution of
    the United States, in all cases whatsoever over such tracts or
    parcels of land as, immediately prior to the admission of said
    State, are controlled or owned by the United States and held for
    Defense or Coast Guard purposes, whether such lands were acquired
    by cession and transfer to the United States by the Republic of
    Hawaii and set aside by Act of Congress or by Executive order or
    proclamation of the President or the Governor of Hawaii for the use
    of the United States, or were acquired by the United States by
    purchase, condemnation, donation, exchange, or otherwise: Provided,
    (i) That the State of Hawaii shall always have the right to serve
    civil or criminal process within the said tracts or parcels of land
    in suits or prosecutions for or on account of rights acquired,
    obligations incurred, or crimes committed within the said State but
    outside of the said tracts or parcels of land; (ii) that the
    reservation of authority in the United States for the exercise by
    the Congress of the United States of the power of exclusive
    legislation over the lands aforesaid shall not operate to prevent
    such lands from being a part of the State of Hawaii, or to prevent
    the said State from exercising over or upon such lands,
    concurrently with the United States, any jurisdiction whatsoever
    which it would have in the absence of such reservation of authority
    and which is consistent with the laws hereafter enacted by the
    Congress pursuant to such reservation of authority; and (iii) that
    such power of exclusive legislation shall vest and remain in the
    United States only so long as the particular tract or parcel of
    land involved is controlled or owned by the United States and used
    for Defense or Coast Guard purposes: Provided, however, That the
    United States shall continue to have sole and exclusive
    jurisdiction over such military installations as have been
    heretofore or hereafter determined to be critical areas as
    delineated by the President of the United States and/or the
    Secretary of Defense.
      "Sec. 17. [Federal Reserve Act; amendment.] The next to last
    sentence of the first paragraph of section 2 of the Federal Reserve
    Act (38 Stat. 251) as amended by section 19 of the Act of July 7,
    1958, (72 Stat. 339, 350) is amended by inserting after the word
    'Alaska' the words 'or Hawaii.'
      "Sec. 18. [Maritime matters.] (a) Nothing contained in this Act
    shall be construed as depriving the Federal Maritime Board of the
    exclusive jurisdiction heretofore conferred on it over common
    carriers engaged in transportation by water between any port in the
    State of Hawaii and other ports in the United States, or
    possessions, or as conferring on the Interstate Commerce Commission
    jurisdiction over transportation by water between any such ports.
      "(b) Effective on the admission of the State of Hawaii into the
    Union - 
        "(1) the first sentence of section 506 of the Merchant Marine
      Act, 1936 as amended (46 U.S.C. [App.], sec. 1156) [now 46 U.S.C.
      53101 note], is amended by inserting before the words 'an island
      possession or island territory', the words 'the State of Hawaii,
      or';
        "(2) section 605(a) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as
      amended (46 U.S.C. [App.], sec. 1175[(a)]) [now 46 U.S.C. 53101
      note], is amended by inserting before the words 'an island
      possession or island territory', the words 'the State of Hawaii,
      or'; and
        "(3) the second paragraph of section 714 of the Merchant Marine
      Act, 1936, as amended (46 U.S.C. [App.], sec. 1204) [now 46
      U.S.C. 57531], is amended by inserting before the words 'an
      island possession or island territory' the words 'the State of
      Hawaii, or'. (As amended Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 46, July 12, 1960,
      74 Stat. 423.)
      "Sec. 19. [United States Nationality.] Nothing contained in this
    Act shall operate to confer United States nationality, nor to
    terminate nationality heretofore lawfully acquired, or restore
    nationality heretofore lost under any law of the United States or
    under any treaty to which the United States is or was a party.
      "Sec. 20. [Immigration and Nationality Act; amendments.] (a)
    Section 101(a)(36) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (66 Stat.
    170, 8 U.S.C., sec. 1101(a)(36)) is amended by deleting the word
    'Hawaii,'.
      "(b) Section 212(d)(7) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (66
    Stat. 188, 8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(7) is amended by deleting from the
    first sentence thereof the word 'Hawaii,' and by deleting the
    proviso to said first sentence.
      "(c) The first sentence of section 310(a) of the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, as amended (66 Stat. 239, 8 U.S.C. 1421(a), 72
    Stat. 351) is further amended by deleting the words 'for the
    Territory of Hawaii, and'.
      "(d) Nothing contained in this Act shall be held to repeal,
    amend, or modify the provisions of section 305 of the Immigration
    and Nationality Act (66 Stat. 237, 8 U.S.C. 1405).
      "Sec. 21. [Aircraft purchase loans.] Effective upon the admission
    of the State of Hawaii into the Union, section 3, subsection (b),
    of the Act of September 7, 1957 (71 Stat. 629), is amended by
    substituting the words 'State of Hawaii' for the words 'Territory
    of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 22. [Severability clause.] If any provision of this Act, or
    any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or individual
    word, or the application thereof in any circumstance is held
    invalid, the validity of the remainder of the Act and of the
    application of any such provision, section, subsection, sentence,
    clause, phrase, or individual word in other circumstances shall not
    be affected thereby.
      "Sec. 23. [Repeal of inconsistent laws.] All Acts or parts of
    Acts in conflict with the provisions of this Act, whether passed by
    the legislature of said Territory or by Congress, are hereby
    repealed."

                       HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS RECOVERY                   
      Pub. L. 104-42, title II, Nov. 2, 1995, 109 Stat. 357, provided
    that:

      "SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE
      "This title may be cited as the 'Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery
    Act'.

      "SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.
      "As used in this title:
        "(1) Agency. - The term 'agency' includes - 
          "(A) any instrumentality of the United States;
          "(B) any element of an agency; and
          "(C) any wholly owned or mixed-owned corporation of the
        United States Government.
        "(2) Beneficiary. - The term 'beneficiary' has the same meaning
      as is given the term 'native Hawaiian' under section 201(7) of
      the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act [former 48 U.S.C. 692(7)].
        "(3) Chairman. - The term 'Chairman' means the Chairman of the
      Hawaiian Homes Commission of the State of Hawaii.
        "(4) Commission. - The term 'Commission' means the Hawaiian
      Homes Commission established by section 202 of the Hawaiian Homes
      Commission Act [former 48 U.S.C. 693].
        "(5) Hawaiian homes commission act. - The term 'Hawaiian Homes
      Commission Act' means the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42
      Stat. 108 et. seq., chapter 42) [Act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, former
      48 U.S.C. 691 et seq.].
        "(6) Hawaii state admission act. - The term 'Hawaii State
      Admission Act' means the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for the
      admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union', approved March
      18, 1959 [Pub. L. 86-3] (73 Stat. 4, chapter 339; 48 U.S.C. note
      prec. 491).
        "(7) Lost use. - The term 'lost use' means the value of the use
      of the land during the period when beneficiaries or the Hawaiian
      Homes Commission have been unable to use lands as authorized by
      the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act because of the use of such
      lands by the Federal Government after August 21, 1959.
        "(8) Secretary. - The term 'Secretary' means the Secretary of
      the Interior.

      "SEC. 203. SETTLEMENT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS.
      "(a) Determination. - 
        "(1) The Secretary shall determine the value of the following:
          "(A) Lands under the control of the Federal Government that -
        
            "(i) were initially designated as available lands under
          section 203 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act [former 48
          U.S.C. 697] (as in effect on the date of enactment of such
          Act [July 9, 1921]); and
            "(ii) were nevertheless transferred to or otherwise
          acquired by the Federal Government.
          "(B) The lost use of lands described in subparagraph (A).
        "(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the
      determinations of value made under this subsection shall be made
      not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act
      [Nov. 2, 1995]. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary
      shall use a method of determining value that - 
          "(i) is acceptable to the Chairman; and
          "(ii) is in the best interest of the beneficiaries.
        "(B) The Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree to
      extend the deadline for making determinations under this
      subparagraph beyond the date specified in subparagraph (A).
        "(3) The Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree, with
      respect to the determinations of value described in subparagraphs
      (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), to provide - 
          "(A) for making any portion of the determinations of value
        pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1); and
          "(B) for making the remainder of the determinations with
        respect to which the Secretary and the Chairman do not exercise
        the option described in subparagraph (A), pursuant to an
        appraisal conducted under paragraph (4).
        "(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), if the
      Secretary and the Chairman do not agree on the determinations of
      value made by the Secretary under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of
      paragraph (1), or, pursuant to paragraph (3), mutually agree to
      determine the value of certain lands pursuant to this
      subparagraph, such values shall be determined by an appraisal. An
      appraisal conducted under this subparagraph shall be conducted in
      accordance with appraisal standards that are mutually agreeable
      to the Secretary and the Chairman.
        "(B) If an appraisal is conducted pursuant to this
      subparagraph, during the appraisal process - 
          "(i) the Chairman shall have the opportunity to present
        evidence of value to the Secretary;
          "(ii) the Secretary shall provide the Chairman a preliminary
        copy of the appraisal;
          "(iii) the Chairman shall have a reasonable and sufficient
        opportunity to comment on the preliminary copy of the
        appraisal; and
          "(iv) the Secretary shall give consideration to the comments
        and evidence of value submitted by the Chairman under this
        subparagraph.
        "(C) The Chairman shall have the right to dispute the
      determinations of values made by an appraisal conducted under
      this subparagraph. If the Chairman disputes the appraisal, the
      Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree to employ a process
      of bargaining, mediation, or other means of dispute resolution to
      make the determinations of values described in subparagraphs (A)
      and (B) of paragraph (1).
      "(b) Authorization. - 
        "(1) Exchange. - Subject to paragraphs (2) and (5), the
      Secretary may convey Federal lands described in paragraph (5) to
      the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands in exchange for the
      continued retention by the Federal Government of lands described
      in subsection (a)(1)(A).
        "(2) Value of lands. - (A) The value of any lands conveyed to
      the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands by the Federal Government
      in accordance with an exchange made under paragraph (1) may not
      be less than the value of the lands retained by the Federal
      Government pursuant to such exchange.
        "(B) For the purposes of this subsection, the value of any
      lands exchanged pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined as
      of the date the exchange is carried out, or any other date
      determined by the Secretary, with the concurrence of the
      Chairman.
        "(3) Lost use. - Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the
      Secretary may convey Federal lands described in paragraph (5) to
      the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands as compensation for the
      lost use of lands determined under subsection (a)(1)(B).
        "(4) Value of lost use. - (A) the value of any lands conveyed
      to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands by the Federal
      Government as compensation under paragraph (3) may not be less
      than the value of the lost use of lands determined under
      subsection (a)(1)(B).
        "(B) For the purposes of this subparagraph, the value of any
      lands conveyed pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be determined as
      of the date that the conveyance occurs, or any other date
      determined by the Secretary, with the concurrence of the
      Chairman.
        "(5) Federal lands for exchange. - (A) Subject to subparagraphs
      (B) and (C), Federal lands located in Hawaii that are under the
      control of an agency (other than lands within the National Park
      System or the National Wildlife Refuge System) may be conveyed to
      the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands under paragraphs (1) and
      (3). To assist the Secretary in carrying out this Act [title],
      the head of an agency may transfer to the Department of the
      Interior, without reimbursement, jurisdiction and control over
      any lands and any structures that the Secretary determines to be
      suitable for conveyance to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
      pursuant to an exchange conducted under this section.
        "(B) No Federal lands that the Federal Government is required
      to convey to the State of Hawaii under section 5 of the Hawaii
      State Admission Act [section 5 of Pub. L. 86-3, set out above]
      may be conveyed under paragraph (1) or (3).
        "(C) No Federal lands that generate income (or would be
      expected to generate income) for the Federal Government may be
      conveyed pursuant to an exchange made under this paragraph to the
      Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.
      "(c) Available Lands. - 
        "(1) In general. - Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the
      Secretary shall require that lands conveyed to the Department of
      Hawaiian Home Lands under this Act [title] shall have the status
      of available lands under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.
        "(2) Subsequent exchange of lands. - Notwithstanding any other
      provision of law, lands conveyed to the Department of Hawaiian
      Home Lands under this paragraph may subsequently be exchanged
      pursuant to section 204(3) of the Hawaiian Home Commission Act
      [former 48 U.S.C. 698(3)].
        "(3) Sale of certain lands. - Notwithstanding any other
      provision of law, the Chairman may, at the time that lands are
      conveyed to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands as compensation
      for lost use under this Act [title], designate lands to be sold.
      The Chairman is authorized to sell such land under terms and
      conditions that are in the best interest of the beneficiaries.
      The proceeds of such a sale may only be used for the purposes
      described in section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act
      [former 48 U.S.C. 701(a)].
      "(d) Consultation. - In carrying out their respective
    responsibilities under this section, the Secretary and the Chairman
    shall - 
        "(1) consult with the beneficiaries and organizations
      representing the beneficiaries; and
        "(2) report to such organizations on a regular basis concerning
      the progress made to meet the requirements of this section.
      "(e) Hold Harmless. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
    the United States shall defend and hold harmless the Department of
    Hawaiian Home Lands, the employees of the Department, and the
    beneficiaries with respect to any claim arising from the ownership
    of any land or structure that is conveyed to the Department
    pursuant to an exchange made under this section prior to the
    conveyance to the Department of such land or structure.
      "(f) Screening. - 
        "(1) In general. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      the Secretary of Defense and the Administrator of General
      Services shall, at the same time as notice is provided to Federal
      agencies that excess real property is being screened pursuant to
      applicable Federal laws (including regulations) for possible
      transfer to such agencies, notify the Chairman of any such
      screening of real property that is located within the State of
      Hawaii.
        "(2) Response to notification. - Notwithstanding any other
      provision of law, not later than 90 days after receiving a notice
      under paragraph (1), the Chairman may select for appraisal real
      property, or at the election of the Chairman, portions of real
      property, that is the subject of a screening.
        "(3) Selection. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      with respect to any real property located in the State of Hawaii
      that, as of the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 2, 1995], is
      being screened pursuant to applicable Federal laws for possible
      transfer (as described in paragraph (1)) or has been screened for
      such purpose, but has not been transferred or declared to be
      surplus real property, the Chairman may select all, or any
      portion of, such real property to be appraised pursuant to
      paragraph (4).
        "(4) Appraisal. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of General Services
      shall appriase [sic] the real property or portions of real
      property selected by the Chairman using the Uniform Standards for
      Federal Land Acquisition developed by the Interagency Land
      Acquisition Conference, or such other standard as the Chairman
      agrees to.
        "(5) Request for conveyance. - Notwithstanding any other
      provision of law, not later than 30 days after the date of
      completion of such appraisal, the Chairman may request the
      conveyance to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands of - 
          "(A) the appraised property; or
          "(B) a portion of the appraised property, to the Department
        of Hawaiian Home Lands.
        "(6) Conveyance. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      upon receipt of a request from the Chairman, the Secretary of
      Defense or the Administrator of the General Services
      Administration shall convey, without reimbursement, the real
      property that is the subject of the request to the Department of
      Hawaiian Home Lands as compensation for lands identified under
      subsection (a)(1)(A) or lost use identified under subsection
      (a)(1)(B).
        "(7) Real property not subject to recoupment. - Notwithstanding
      any other provision of law, any real property conveyed pursuant
      to paragraph (6) shall not be subject to recoupment based upon
      the sale or lease of the land by the Chairman.
        "(8) Valuation. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      the Secretary shall reduce the value identified under
      subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1), as determined
      pursuant to such subsection, by an amount equal to the appraised
      value of any excess lands conveyed pursuant to paragraph (6).
        "(9) Limitation. - No Federal lands that generate income (or
      would be expected to generate income) for the Federal Government
      may be conveyed pursuant to this subsection to the Department of
      Hawaiian Home Lands.

      "SEC. 204. PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO HAWAIIAN HOMES
        COMMISSION ACT.
      "(a) Notice to the Secretary. - Not later than 120 days after a
    proposed amendment to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act is approved
    in the manner provided in section 4 of the Hawaii State Admission
    Act [section 4 of Pub. L. 86-3, set out above], the Chairman shall
    submit to the Secretary - 
        "(1) a copy of the proposed amendment;
        "(2) the nature of the change proposed to be made by the
      amendment; and
        "(3) an opinion regarding whether the proposed amendment
      requires the approval of Congress under section 4 of the Hawaii
      State Admission Act.
      "(b) Determination by Secretary. - Not later than 60 days after
    receiving the materials required to be submitted by the Chairman
    pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall determine whether
    the proposed amendment requires the approval of Congress under
    section 4 of the Hawaii State Admission Act, and shall notify the
    Chairman and Congress of the determination of the Secretary.
      "(c) Congressional Approval Required. - If, pursuant to
    subsection (b), the Secretary determines that the proposed
    amendment requires the approval of Congress, the Secretary shall
    submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
    Senate and the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural
    Resources] of the House of Representatives - 
        "(1) a draft joint resolution approving the amendment;
        "(2) a description of the change made by the proposed amendment
      and an explanation of how the amendment advances the interests of
      the beneficiaries;
        "(3) a comparison of the existing law (as of the date of
      submission of the proposed amendment) that is the subject of the
      amendment with the proposed amendment;
        "(4) a recommendation concerning the advisability of approving
      the proposed amendment; and
        "(5) any documentation concerning the amendments received from
      the Chairman.

      "SEC. 205. LAND EXCHANGES.
      "(a) Notice to the Secretary. - If the Chairman recommends for
    approval an exchange of Hawaiian Home Lands, the Chairman shall
    submit a report to the Secretary on the proposed exchange. The
    report shall contain - 
        "(1) a description of the acreage and fair market value of the
      lands involved in the exchange;
        "(2) surveys and appraisals prepared by the Department of
      Hawaiian Home Lands, if any; and
        "(3) an identification of the benefits to the parties of the
      proposed exchange.
      "(b) Approval or Disapproval. - 
        "(1) In general. - Not later than 120 days after receiving the
      information required to be submitted by the Chairman pursuant to
      subsection (a), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the
      proposed exchange.
        "(2) Notification. - The Secretary shall notify the Chairman,
      the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and
      the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources]
      of the House of Representatives of the reasons for the approval
      or disapproval of the proposed exchange.
      "(c) Exchanges Initiated by Secretary. - 
        "(1) In general. - The Secretary may recommend to the Chairman
      an exchange of Hawaiian Home Lands for Federal lands described in
      section 203(b)(5), other than lands described in subparagraphs
      (B) and (C) of such section. If the Secretary initiates a
      recommendation for such an exchange, the Secretary shall submit a
      report to the Chairman on the proposed exchange that meets the
      requirements of a report described in subsection (a).
        "(2) Approval by chairman. - Not later than 120 days after
      receiving a recommendation for an exchange from the Secretary
      under paragraph (1), the Chairman shall provide written
      notification to the Secretary of the approval or disapproval of a
      proposed exchange. If the Chairman approves the proposed
      exchange, upon receipt of the written notification, the Secretary
      shall notify the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
      Senate, and the Committee on Resources [now Committee on Natural
      Resources] of the House of Representatives of the approval of the
      Chairman of the proposed exchange.
        "(3) Exchange. - Upon providing notification pursuant to
      paragraph (2) of a proposed exchange that has been approved by
      the Chairman pursuant to this section, the Secretary may carry
      out the exchange.
      "(d) Selection and Exchange. - 
        "(1) In general. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
      the Secretary may - 
          "(A) select real property that is the subject of screening
        activities conducted by the Secretary of Defense or the
        Administrator of General Services pursuant to applicable
        Federal laws (including regulations) for possible transfer to
        Federal agencies; and
          "(B) make recommendations to the Chairman concerning making
        an exchange under subsection (c) that includes such real
        property.
        "(2) Transfer. - Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if
      the Chairman approves an exchange proposed by the Secretary under
      paragraph (1) - 
          "(A) the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of General
        Services shall transfer the real property described in
        paragraph (1)(A) that is the subject of the exchange to the
        Secretary without reimbursement; and
          "(B) the Secretary shall carry out the exchange.
        "(3) Limitation. - No Federal lands that generate income (or
      would be expected to generate income) for the Federal Government
      may be conveyed pursuant to this subsection to the Department of
      Hawaiian Home Lands.
      "(e) Surveys and Appraisals. - 
        "(1) Requirement. - The Secretary shall conduct a survey of all
      Hawaiian Home Lands based on the report entitled 'Survey Needs
      for the Hawaiian Home Lands', issued by the Bureau of Land
      Management of the Department of the Interior, and dated July
      1991.
        "(2) Other surveys. - The Secretary is authorized to conduct
      such other surveys and appraisals as may be necessary to make an
      informed decision regarding approval or disapproval of a proposed
      exchange.

      "SEC. 206. ADMINISTRATION OF ACTS BY UNITED STATES.
      "(a) Designation. - 
        "(1) In general. - Not later than 120 days after the date of
      enactment of this Act [Nov. 2, 1995], the Secretary shall
      designate an individual from within the Department of the
      Interior to administer the responsibilities of the United States
      under this title and the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.
        "(2) Default. - If the Secretary fails to make an appointment
      by the date specified in paragraph (1), or if the position is
      vacant at any time thereafter, the Assistant Secretary for
      Policy, Budget, and Administration of the Department of the
      Interior shall exercise the responsibilities for the Department
      in accordance with subsection (b).
      "(b) Responsibilities. - The individual designated pursuant to
    subsection (a) shall, in administering the laws referred to in such
    subsection - 
        "(1) advance the interests of the beneficiaries; and
        "(2) assist the beneficiaries and the Department of Hawaiian
      Home Lands in obtaining assistance from programs of the
      Department of the Interior and other Federal agencies that will
      promote homesteading opportunities, economic self-sufficiency,
      and social well-being of the beneficiaries.

      "SEC. 207. ADJUSTMENT.
      "[Amended section 386a of Title 25, Indians.]

      "SEC. 208. REPORT.
      "(a) In General. - Not later than 180 days after the date of
    enactment of this Act [Nov. 2, 1995], the Chairman shall report to
    the Secretary concerning any claims that - 
        "(1) involve the transfer of lands designated as available
      lands under section 203 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act
      [former 48 U.S.C. 697] (as in effect on the date of enactment of
      such Act [July 9, 1921]); and
        "(2) are not otherwise covered under this title.
      "(b) Review. - Not later than 180 days after receiving the report
    submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall make a
    determination with respect to each claim referred to in subsection
    (a), whether, on the basis of legal and equitable considerations,
    compensation should be granted to the Department of Hawaiian Home
    Lands.
      "(c) Compensation. - If the Secretary makes a determination under
    subsection (b) that compensation should be granted to the
    Department of Hawaiian Home Lands, the Secretary shall determine
    the value of the lands and lost use in accordance with the process
    established under section 203(a), and increase the determination of
    value made under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 203(a)(1) by
    the value determined under this subsection.

      "SEC. 209. AUTHORIZATION.
      "There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary for compensation to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
    for the value of the lost use of lands determined under section
    203. Compensation received by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands
    from funds made available pursuant to this section may only be used
    for the purposes described in section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes
    Commission Act [former 48 U.S.C. 701(a)]. To the extent that
    amounts are made available by appropriations pursuant to this
    section for compensation paid to the Department of Hawaiian Home
    Lands for lost use, the Secretary shall reduce the determination of
    value established under section 203(a)(1)(B) by such amount."

        CONSENT TO AMENDMENT OF HAWAIIAN HOMES COMMISSION ACT, 1920    
      Pub. L. 105-21, June 27, 1997, 111 Stat. 235, provided: "That, as
    required by section 4 of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for
    the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union', approved
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4) [set out as a note above], the United
    States consents to the following amendments to the Hawaiian Homes
    Commission Act, 1920, adopted by the State of Hawaii in the manner
    required for State legislation:
        "(1) Act 339 of the Session Laws of Hawaii, 1993.
        "(2) Act 37 of the Session Laws of Hawaii, 1994."
      Pub. L. 102-398, Oct. 6, 1992, 106 Stat. 1953, provided: "That,
    as required by section 4 of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for
    the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union', approved
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4) [set out as a note above], the United
    States hereby consents to the following amendments to the Hawaiian
    Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended, adopted by the State of
    Hawaii in the manner required for State legislation:
        "Act 16 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1986;
        "Act 85 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1986;
        "Act 249 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1986;
        "Act 36 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1987;
        "Act 28 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1989;
        "Act 265 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1989;
        "Act 14 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1990;
        "Act 24 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1990;
        "Act 150 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1990; and
        "Act 305 of Session Laws of Hawaii, 1990."
      Pub. L. 99-557, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3143, provided: "That,
    as required by section 4 of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for
    the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union', approved
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4) [set out as a note above], the United
    States hereby consents to all amendments to the Hawaiian Homes
    Commission Act, 1920, as amended, adopted between August 21, 1959,
    and June 30, 1985, by the State of Hawaii, either in the
    Constitution of the State of Hawaii or in the manner required for
    State legislation, except for Act 112 of 1981."

                            HAWAII OMNIBUS ACT                        
      Pub. L. 86-624, July 12, 1960, 74 Stat. 411, as amended,
    provided:
      "[Sec. 1. Short Title.] That this Act may be cited as the 'Hawaii
    Omnibus Act'.
      "Sec. 2. [Printing outside United States.] Subsection (a) of
    section 2 of the Act of August 1, 1956 (70 Stat. 890), is amended
    by striking out the words 'the continental United States' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'the States of the United
    States and the District of Columbia'.
      "Sec. 3. [Soil Bank Act; amendment.] Section 113 of the Soil Bank
    Act, as amended, is amended to read as follows: 'This subtitle B
    shall apply to the several States and, if the Secretary determines
    it to be in the national interest, to the Commonwealth of Puerto
    Rico and the Virgin Islands; and as used in this subtitle B, the
    term "State" includes Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.'
      "Sec. 4. [Armed Forces; amendment.] (a) Title 10, United States
    Code, section 101(2), is amended by striking out the words 'Hawaii
    or'.
      "(b) Title 10, United States Code, sections 802(11) and 802(12),
    are each amended by striking out the words 'the main group of the
    Hawaiian Islands,'.
      "(c) Title 10, United States Code, section 2662(c), is amended by
    striking out the word ', Hawaii,'.
      "(d) Title 10, United States Code is amended by striking out
    clause (6) of section 4744 [now section 2648]; by renumbering
    clauses (7) through (9) as clauses (6) through (8); by amending
    redesignated clause (8) to read as follows: 'The families of
    persons described in clauses (1), (2), (4), (5), and (7).'; and by
    striking out the words 'clause (8) or (9)' in the last sentence of
    such section and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'clause (7) or
    (8)'.
      "Sec. 5. [Home Loan Bank Board.] (a) Paragraph (3) [now (2)] of
    section 2 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, as amended, is further
    amended by striking out the words 'the Virgin Islands of the United
    States, and the Territory of Hawaii' and by inserting in lieu
    thereof the words 'and the Virgin Islands of the United States'.
      "(b) Section 7 of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended,
    is further amended by striking out the words 'Territory of Hawaii'
    and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'State of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 6. [National Housing Act; amendment.] The National Housing
    Act is amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii,' in sections 9,
    210(d), 207(a)(7), 601(d), 713(q), and 801(g).
      "Sec. 7. [Securities and Exchange Commission.] (a) Paragraph (6)
    of section 2 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is further
    amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii.'.
      "(b) Paragraph (16) of section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934, as amended, is further amended by striking out the
    word 'Hawaii,'.
      "(c) Paragraph (37) of section 2(a) and paragraph (1) of section
    6(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, are each
    amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii,'.
      "(d) Paragraph (18) of section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers
    Act of 1940, as amended, is further amended by striking out the
    word 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 8. [Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act;
    amendment.] (a) Section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic
    Allotment Act, as amended, is further amended by striking out the
    words 'in the continental United States, except in Alaska,' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'in the States of the Union,
    except Alaska,'.
      "(b) Section 17(a) of the Soil Conservation and Domestic
    Allotment Act, as amended, is further amended to read as follows:
    'This Act shall apply to the States, the Commonwealth of Puerto
    Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and, as used in this Act, the term
    "State" includes Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.'
      "Sec. 9. [Water Storage and Utilization.] Section 1 of the Act of
    August 28, 1937 (50 Stat. 869), as amended, is further amended by
    striking out the words 'the United States, including the
    Territories of Alaska and Hawaii, and Puerto Rico and the Virgin
    Islands' and inserting in lieu thereof the words 'the States of the
    United States and in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands'.
      "Sec. 10. [Wildlife Restoration.] Section 2 of the Act of
    September 2, 1937 (50 Stat. 917), as amended, is further amended by
    striking out the words '; and the term "State" shall be construed
    to mean and include the several States and the Territory of
    Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 11. [Fishery Resources.] The Act of Aug. 4, 1947 (61 Stat.
    726), is amended - 
        "(a) by striking out the words 'the Territories and island
      possessions of the United States' and inserting in lieu thereof
      the words 'the United States and its island possessions' in
      section 1 and 2;
        "(b) by striking out the words 'Territory of Hawaii and' in
      section 1;
        "(c) by striking out the word 'Territorial' and inserting in
      lieu thereof the word 'State' in section 3; and
        "(d) by striking out the words 'Hawaiian Islands' and
      'Territory of Hawaii' and inserting in lieu thereof, in both
      cases, the words 'State of Hawaii' in section 4.
      "Sec. 12. [Fish Restoration.] Section 2(d) of the Act of August
    9, 1950 (64 Stat. 431), as amended, is further amended by striking
    out the words '; and the term "State" shall be construed to mean
    and include the several States and the Territory of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 13. [Criminal Code; amendments.] (a) Title 18, United
    States Code, section 1401, is amended by striking out the words
    'the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(b) Title 18, United States Code, section 5024, is amended by
    striking out the words preceding the first comma and inserting in
    lieu thereof the words 'This chapter shall apply in the States of
    the United States'.
      "(c) Section 6 of Public Law 85-752, as amended, is further
    amended by striking out the words preceding the first comma and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'Sections 3 and 4 of this Act
    shall apply in the States of the United States'.
      "Sec. 14. [Education.] (a)(1) Subsection (a) of section 103 of
    the National Defense Education Act of 1958, relating to definition
    of State, is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,' each time it appears
    therein.
      "(2)(A) Paragraph (2), and subparagraph (C) of paragraph (3), of
    subsection (a) of section 302 of such Act, relating to allotments
    for science, mathematics, and foreign language instruction
    equipment, are each amended by striking out 'continental United
    States' each time it appears therein and inserting in lieu thereof
    'United States'.
      "(B) Effective in the case of promulgations of allotment ratios
    made, under section 302 of such Act, after enactment of this Act
    and before satisfactory data are available from the Department of
    Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of Alaska,
    subparagraph B of such paragraph (3) is amended to read:
      " '(B) The term "United States" means the continental United
    States (excluding Alaska and Hawaii)'.
      "(C) Effective in the case of promulgations of allotment ratios
    made under such section 302 after such data for a full year are
    available from the Department of Commerce, subparagraph (B) of such
    paragraph (3) is amended to read:
      " '(B) The term "United States" means the fifty States and the
    District of Columbia.'
      "Promulgations of allotment ratios made under such section 302
    after such data for a full year are available from the Department
    of Commerce, but before such data are available therefrom for a
    full three-year period, shall be based on such data for such one
    full year, or when such data are available for a two-year period,
    for such two years.
      "(3) Section 1008 of such Act, relating to allotments to
    territories, is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(b)(1) Section 4 of the Act of March 10, 1924 (43 Stat. 18),
    extending the benefits of the Smith-Hughes vocational education law
    to Hawaii, is repealed.
      "(2) The last sentence of section 2 of the Act of February 23,
    1917 (39 Stat. 930), relating to allotments for salaries of
    teachers of agricultural subjects, is amended by striking out
    '$27,000' and inserting in lieu thereof '$28,500'. The last
    sentence of section 4 of such Act, as amended, relating to
    allotments for teacher training, is amended by striking out
    '$98,500' and inserting in lieu thereof '$105,200'.
      "(3) Paragraph (1) of section 2 of the Vocational Education Act
    of 1946, relating to definition of States and Territories, is
    amended by striking out 'the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(4) Subsection (e) of section 210 and subsection (a) of section
    307 of such Act, relating to definition of State are each amended
    by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(c) Paragraph (13) of section 15 of the Act of September 23,
    1950 (64 Stat. 967), as amended, relating to definition of State,
    is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(d)(1) The material in the parentheses in the first sentence of
    subsection (d) of section 3 of the Act of September 30, 1950, as
    amended, relating to determination of local contribution rate, is
    amended to read: '(other than a local educational agency in Puerto
    Rico, Wake Island, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, or in a State in
    which a substantial proportion of the land is in unorganized
    territory for which a State agency is the local educational agency,
    or in a State in which there is only one local educational
    agency)'.
      "(2) The fourth sentence of such subsection is amended by
    striking out 'in the continental United States (including Alaska)'
    and inserting in lieu thereof '(other than Puerto Rico, Wake
    Island, Guam, or the Virgin Islands)' and by striking out
    'continental United States' in clause (ii) of such sentence and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'United States (which for purposes of
    this sentence and the next sentence means the fifty States and the
    District of Columbia)'. The fifth sentence of such subsection is
    amended by striking out 'continental' before 'United States' each
    time it appears therein and by striking out '(including Alaska)'.
      "(3) The last sentence of such subsection is amended by striking
    out 'Hawaii,' and by inserting after 'for which a State agency is
    the local educational agency,' the following: 'or in any State in
    which there is only one local educational agency,'.
      "(4) Paragraph (8) of section 9 of such Act, relating to
    definition of State, is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(e) Notwithstanding the last sentence of subsection (b) of
    section 5 of the Act entitled 'An Act to provide for the admission
    of the State of Hawaii into the Union', approved March 18, 1959 (73
    Stat. 4; Public Law 86-3), there is hereby authorized to be
    appropriated to the State of Hawaii the sum of $6,000,000. Amounts
    appropriated under this subsection shall be held and considered to
    be granted to such State subject to those provisions of the Act
    entitled 'An Act donating public lands to the several States and
    Territories which may provide colleges for the benefit of
    agriculture and the mechanic arts', approved July 2, 1862 (7 U.S.C.
    301-308), applicable to the proceeds from the sale of land or land
    scrip.
      "Sec. 15. [Importation of Milk and Cream.] Subsection (b) of
    section 9 of the Act of February 15, 1927 (44 Stat. 1103), as
    amended, is amended to read:
      " '(b) The term "United States" means the fifty States and the
    District of Columbia.'
      "Sec. 16. [Opium Poppy Control.] Section 12 of the Opium Poppy
    Control Act of 1942, as amended, is further amended by deleting
    therefrom the words 'the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 17. [Highways.] (a) The definition of the term 'State' in
    title 23, United States Code, section 101(a), is amended to read as
    follows:
      " 'The term "State" means any one of the fifty States, the
    District of Columbia, or Puerto Rico.'
      "(b) Sections 103(g) and 105(e) of title 23, United States Code,
    are repealed.
      "(c) Section 103(d) of title 23, United States Code, is amended
    to read as follows:
      " '(d) The Interstate System shall be designated within the
    United States, including the District of Columbia, and it shall not
    exceed forty-one thousand miles in total extent. It shall be so
    located as to connect by routes, as direct as practicable, the
    principal metropolitan areas, cities, and industrial centers, to
    serve the national defense and, to the greatest extent possible, to
    connect at suitable border points with routes of continental
    importance in the Dominion of Canada and the Republic of Mexico.
    The routes of this system, to the greatest extent possible, shall
    be selected by joint action of the State highway departments of
    each State and the adjoining States, subject to the approval by the
    Secretary as provided in subsection (e) of this section. All
    highways or routes included in the Interstate System as finally
    approved, if not already coincident with the primary system, shall
    be added to said system without regard to the mileage limitation
    set forth in subsection (b) of this section. This system may be
    located both in rural and urban areas.'
      "(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for the purpose
    of expediting the construction, reconstruction, or improvement,
    inclusive of necessary bridges and tunnels, of the Interstate
    System, including extensions thereof through urban areas,
    designated in accordance with section 103(d) of title 23, United
    States Code, as amended by section 1 of this Act, the sum of
    $12,375,000 shall be apportioned to the State of Hawaii out of the
    sum authorized to be appropriated for the Interstate System for the
    fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, under the provisions of section
    108(b) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1956 (70 Stat. 374), as
    amended by section 7(a) of the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958 (72
    Stat. 89), such apportionment to be made at the same time such
    funds are apportioned to other States. The total sum to be
    apportioned under section 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States
    Code, for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1962, among the States
    other than Hawaii, shall be reduced by said sum apportioned to the
    State of Hawaii under this section. The Secretary of Commerce shall
    apportion funds to the State of Hawaii for the Interstate System
    for the fiscal year 1963 and subsequent fiscal years pursuant to
    the provisions of said section 104(b)(5) of title 23, United States
    Code, and, in preparing the estimates required by that section, he
    shall take into account the apportionment made to the State of
    Hawaii under this section.
      "(e) Section 127 of title 23, United States Code, is amended by
    adding at the end thereof the following sentence: 'With respect to
    the State of Hawaii, laws or regulations in effect on February 1,
    1960, shall be applicable for the purposes of this section in lieu
    of those in effect on July 1, 1956.'
      "Sec. 18. [Internal Revenue.] (a) Section 4262(c)(1) of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to the definition of
    'continental United States' for purposes of the tax on
    transportation of persons) is amended to read as follows:
        " '(1) Continental United States. - The term "continental
      United States" means the District of Columbia and the States
      other than Alaska and Hawaii.'
      "(b) Section 2202 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating
    to missionaries in foreign service) is amended by striking out 'the
    State, the District of Columbia, or Hawaii' and inserting in lieu
    thereof 'the State or the District of Columbia'.
      "(c) Section 3121(e)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to a special definition of 'State') is amended by
    striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(d) Sections 3306(j) and 4233(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986 (each relating to a special definition of 'State') are amended
    by striking out 'Hawaii, and'.
      "(e) Section 4221(d)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to a special definition of 'State or local government')
    is amended to read as follows:
      " '(4) State or local government. - The term "State or local
    government" means any State, any political subdivision thereof, or
    the District of Columbia.'
      "(f) Section 4502(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of 'United States') is amended by striking
    out 'the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(g) Section 4774 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating
    to territorial extent of law) is amended by striking out 'the
    Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(h) Section 7653(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to shipments from the United States) is amended by
    striking out ', its possessions or the Territory of Hawaii' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'or its possessions'.
      "(i) Section 7701(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of 'United States') is amended by striking
    out ', the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(j) Section 7701(a)(10) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
    (relating to definition of 'State') is amended by striking out 'the
    Territory of Hawaii and'.
      "(k) The amendments contained in subsections (a) through (j) of
    this section shall be effective as of August 21, 1959. (As amended
    Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)
      "Sec. 19. [Courts; Kure Island.] Title 28, United States Code,
    section 91, and the Act of June 15, 1950 (64 Stat. 217), as
    amended, are each amended by striking out the words 'Kure Island,'.
      "Sec. 20. [Vocational Rehabilitation Act; amendment.] (a)
    Subsection (g) of section 11 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act,
    relating to definition of 'State', is amended by striking out
    'Hawaii,'.
      "(b)(1) Subsections (h) and (i) of such section, relating to
    definition of allotment percentages and Federal shares for purposes
    of allotment and matching for vocational rehabilitation services
    grants, are each amended by striking out 'continental United
    States' and inserting in lieu thereof 'United States' and by
    striking out '(including Alaska)'.
      "(2) Paragraph (1) of such subsection (h) is further amended by
    striking out 'the allotment percentage for Hawaii shall be 50 per
    centum, and' in clause (B).
      "(3) Subsection (h) of such section is further amended by adding
    at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
      " '(3) Promulgations of allotment percentages and computations of
    Federal shares made before satisfactory data are available from the
    Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita income of
    Alaska shall prescribe for Alaska an allotment percentage of 75 per
    centum and a Federal share of 60 per centum and, for purposes of
    such promulgations and computations, Alaska shall not be included
    as part of the "United States". Promulgations and computations made
    thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full
    three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce
    shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska
    for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-
    year period, for such two years.
      " '(4) The term "United States" means (but only for purposes of
    this subsection and subsection (i)) the fifty States and the
    District of Columbia.'
      "(4) Subsection (i) of such section is further amended by
    striking out 'the Federal share for Hawaii shall be 60 per centum,
    and' in clause (B).
      "Sec. 21. [Labor.] (a) Section 3(b) of the Act of June 6, 1933
    (48 Stat. 114), as amended, is further amended by striking out the
    words 'Hawaii, Alaska,'.
      "(b) Section 13(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended,
    is further amended by striking out the words 'Alaska; Hawaii;'.
      "(c) Section 17 of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, is
    further amended by striking out the words 'the District Court for
    the Territory of Alaska,'.
      "(d) Section 3(a)(9) of the Welfare and Pension Plans Disclosure
    Act is amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 22. [National Guard.] Title 32, United States Code, section
    101(1), is amended by striking out the words 'Hawaii or'.
      "Sec. 23. [Water Pollution Control Act; amendment.] (a)(1)
    Subsection (h) of section 5 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
    Act, relating to Federal share for purposes of program operation
    grants, is amended by striking out 'continental United States' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'United States', by striking out
    '(including Alaska)', and by striking out, in clause (B) of
    paragraph (1), 'for Hawaii shall be 50 per centum, and'.
      "(2) Such subsection is further amended by adding at the end
    thereof the following new paragraphs:
      " '(3) As used in this subsection, the term "United States" means
    the fifty States and the District of Columbia.
      " '(4) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available
    from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita
    income of Alaska shall prescribe a Federal share for Alaska of 50
    per centum and, for purposes of such promulgations, Alaska shall
    not be included as part of the "United States." Promulgations made
    thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full
    three-year period are available for the Department of Commerce
    shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska
    for such one full year or when such data are available for a two-
    year period, for such two years.'
      "(b) Subsection (d) of section 11 of such Act, relating to
    definition of 'State', is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 24. [Coast and Geodetic Survey.] The first sentence of
    section 1 of the Act of August 3, 1956 (70 Stat. 988), is amended
    by striking out the words 'the several States' and inserting in
    lieu thereof the words 'the States of the continental United
    States, excluding Alaska.'
      "Sec. 25. [Veterans' Administration.] (a) Title 33, United States
    Code, section 624(a), is amended by striking out the words 'outside
    the continental limits of the United States, or a Territory,
    Commonwealth, or possession of the United States' and inserting in
    lieu thereof 'outside any State'.
      "(b) The first sentence of title 38, United States Code, section
    903(b) [now 2303(b)], is amended to read as follows: 'In addition
    to the foregoing, when such a death occurs in the continental
    United States or Hawaii, the Administrator shall transport the body
    to the place of burial in the continental United States or Hawaii.'
      "(c) Title 38, United States Code, section 2007(c) [now 4107(c)],
    is amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 26. [Davis-Bacon Act; amendment.] Section 1 of the Act of
    March 3, 1931 (46 Stat. 1494), as amended, is further amended by
    striking out the words ', the Territory of Alaska, the Territory of
    Hawaii,' and the words ', or the Territory of Alaska, or the
    Territory of Hawaii.'
      "Sec. 27. [Federal Property and Administrative Services Act;
    amendment.] The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of
    1949, as amended, is further amended by - 
        "(a) striking out the words 'continental United States
      (including Alaska), Hawaii,' in section 3(f) and inserting in
      lieu thereof the words 'States of the Union, the District of
      Columbia,';
        "(b) striking out the words 'continental United States, its
      Territories, and possessions' in section 211(j) and inserting in
      lieu thereof the words 'States of the Union, the District of
      Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the possessions of the United States';
        "(c) striking out the words 'continental limits of the United
      States' in section 404(c) and inserting in lieu thereof the words
      'States of the Union and the District of Columbia'; and
        "(d) striking out the words 'and the Territory of Hawaii' in
      section 702(a).
      "Sec. 28. [Buy American Act; amendment.] Section 1(b) of title
    III of the Act of March 3, 1933 (47 Stat. 1520), as amended, is
    amended by striking out the word 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 29. [Public Health Service Act; amendment.] (a) Subsection
    (f) of section 2 of the Public Health Service Act, relating to
    definition of State, is amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "(b) The first sentence of section 331 of such Act, relating to
    receipt and treatment of lepers, is amended by striking out ',
    Territory, or the District of Columbia'. The fifth sentence of such
    section is amended by striking out 'the Territory of Hawaii' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'Hawaii'.
      "(c) Subsection (c) of section 361 of such Act, relating to
    regulations governing apprehension and detention of persons to
    prevent the spread of a communicable disease, is amended by
    striking out ', the Territory of Hawaii,'.
      "(d)(1) Clause (2) of subsection (a) of section 631 of such Act,
    relating to definition of allotment percentage for purposes of
    allotments for construction of hospitals and other medical service
    facilities, is amended by striking out 'the allotment percentage
    for Hawaii shall be 50 per centum, and'.
      "(2) Such subsection is further amended by striking out
    'continental United States (including Alaska)' and inserting in
    lieu thereof 'United States'.
      "(3) Subsection (b) of such section, relating to promulgation of
    allotment percentages, is amended by striking out 'continental
    United States' and inserting in lieu thereof 'United States'. Such
    subsection is further amended by inserting '(1)' after '(b)' and by
    adding at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
      " '(2) The term "United States" means (but only for purposes of
    this subsection and subsection (a)) the fifty States and the
    District of Columbia;
      " '(3) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available
    from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita
    income of Alaska shall prescribe an allotment percentage for Alaska
    of 50 per centum and, for purposes of such promulgation, Alaska
    shall not be included as part of the "United States". Promulgations
    made thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a
    full three-year period are available from the Department of
    Commerce shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom
    for Alaska for such one full year or, when such data are available
    for a two-year period, for such two years;'.
      "(4) Subsection (d) of such section, relating to definition of
    State, is further amended by striking out 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 30. [Social Security Act; amendment.] (a)(1) Paragraph (8)
    of subsection (a) of section 1101 of the Social Security Act,
    relating to definition of Federal percentage for purposes of
    matching for public assistance grants, is amended by striking out
    'continental United States (including Alaska)' and inserting in
    lieu thereof 'United States'.
      "(2) Subparagraph (A) of such paragraph is further amended by
    striking out '(i)' and by striking out ', and (ii) the Federal
    percentage shall be 50 per centum for Hawaii'.
      "(3) Such paragraph is further amended by adding after
    subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraphs:
      " '(C) The term "United States" means (but only for purposes of
    subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph) the fifty States and
    the District of Columbia.
      " '(D) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available
    from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita
    income of Alaska shall prescribe a Federal percentage for Alaska of
    50 per centum and, for purposes of such promulgations, Alaska shall
    not be included as part of the "United States". Promulgations made
    thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full
    three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce
    shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska
    for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-
    year period, for such two years.'
      "(b)(1) Subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 524 of such Act,
    relating to the definition of allotment percentages and Federal
    shares for purposes of allotment and matching for child welfare
    services grants, are each amended by striking out 'continental
    United States (including Alaska)' and inserting in lieu thereof
    'United States'.
      "(2) Such section is further amended by adding after subsection
    (c) the following new subsections:
      " '(d) For purposes of this section, the term "United States"
    means the fifty States and the District of Columbia.
      " '(e) Promulgations made before satisfactory data are available
    from the Department of Commerce for a full year on the per capita
    income of Alaska shall prescribe a Federal share for Alaska of 50
    per centum and, for purposes of such promulgations, Alaska shall
    not be included as part of the "United States". Promulgations made
    thereafter but before per capita income data for Alaska for a full
    three-year period are available from the Department of Commerce
    shall be based on satisfactory data available therefrom for Alaska
    for such one full year or, when such data are available for a two-
    year period, for such two years.'
      "(c)(1) The last sentence of subsection (i) of section 202 of the
    Social Security Act is amended by striking out 'forty-nine' and
    inserting in lieu thereof 'fifty'.
      "(2) Subsections (h) and (i) of section 210 of such Act relating
    to definitions of State and United States for purposes of old-age,
    survivors, and disability insurance, are each amended by striking
    out 'Hawaii,'. Such subsection (h) is further amended by striking
    out the comma after 'District of Columbia'.
      "(d)(1) Paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of section 1101 of such
    Act, relating to definition of State, is amended by striking out
    'Hawaii and'.
      "(2) Paragraph (2) of such subsection, as amended relating to
    definition of 'United States', is amended by striking out ',
    Hawaii,'.
      "(e) Subparagraph (C) and (G) of paragraph (6) of subsection (d)
    of section 218 of the Social Security Act, as amended, are each
    further amended by striking out 'the Territory of' and 'or
    Territory' each time they appear therein.
      "(f) Subsection (p) of such section is amended by striking out
    'Territory of'.
      "(g) The last sentence of subsection (a) of section 1501 of the
    Social Security Act is amended by striking out 'Alaska, Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 31. [Small Reclamation Projects.] The Small Reclamation
    Projects Act of 1956 (70 Stat. 1044), as heretofore and hereafter
    amended, shall apply to the State of Hawaii.
      "Sec. 32. [Congressional Record.] Section 73 of the Act of
    January 12, 1895 (28 Stat. 617), amended, is further amended by
    striking out the word 'Hawaii,' [Repealed by Pub. L. 90-620, Sec.
    3, Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat 1310].
      "Sec. 33. [Federal Register.] Section 8 of the Federal Register
    Act (49 Stat. 502), as amended, is further amended by striking out
    the words 'continental United States (including Alaska)' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'States of the Union and the
    District of Columbia' [Repealed by Pub. L. 90-620, Sec. 3, Oct. 22,
    1968, 82 Stat. 1310].
      "Sec. 34. [Home Port of Vessels.] Section 1 of the Act of
    February 16, 1925 (43 Stat. 947), as amended, is further amended by
    striking out the words 'Alaska, Hawaii, and'.
      "Sec. 35. [Merchant Marine Act, 1936.] (a) Subsection (a) of
    section 505 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, is
    further amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
    sentence: 'For the purposes of this subsection, the term
    "continental limits of the United States" includes the States of
    Alaska and Hawaii.'
      "(b) Section 606 of such Act, as amended, is further amended by
    adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: 'For the
    purposes of this section, the term "continental limits of the
    United States" includes the States of Alaska and Hawaii.'
      "(c) Section 702 of such Act, as amended, is further amended by
    adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: 'For the
    purposes of this section, the term "continental United States"
    includes the States of Alaska and Hawaii.'
      "Sec. 36. [Communications Act; amendment.] Section 222(a)(10) of
    the Communications Act of 1934, is amended by striking out the
    words 'the several States and the District of Columbia' and
    inserting in lieu thereof the words 'the District of Columbia and
    the States of the Union, except Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 37. [Aircraft Loan Guarantees.] Section 3 of the Act of
    September 7, 1957 (71 Stat. 629), as amended, is further amended by
    striking out the words 'Territory of Hawaii' and inserting in lieu
    thereof the words 'State of Hawaii'.
      "Sec. 38. [Real property transactions.] Section 43(c) of the Act
    of August 10, 1956 (70A Stat. 636), as amended is further amended
    by striking out the words 'United States, Hawaii,' and inserting in
    lieu thereof the words 'States of the Union, the District of
    Columbia,'.
      "Sec. 39. [Selective service.] Section 16(b) of the Universal
    Military Training and Service Act, as amended, is further amended
    by striking out the word 'Hawaii,'.
      "Sec. 40. [Reports on Federal Land Use.] The President shall
    prescribe procedures to assure that the reports to be submitted to
    him by Federal agencies pursuant to section 5(e) of the Act of
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 6), providing for the admission of the
    State of Hawaii into the Union, shall be prepared in accordance
    with uniform policies and coordinated within the executive branch.
      "Sec. 41. [Hawaiian Homes Commission Lands.] Section 5(b) of the
    Act of March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 5), is amended by inserting,
    immediately following the words 'public property' the words ', and
    to all lands defined as "available lands" by section 203 of the
    Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920, as amended,'.
      "Sec. 42. [Lease by United States of Public Property of Hawaii.]
    Until August 21, 1964, there shall be covered into the treasury of
    the State of Hawaii the rentals or consideration received by the
    United States with respect to public property taken for the uses
    and purposes of the United States under section 91 of the Hawaii
    Organic Act and thereafter by the United States leased, rented, or
    granted upon revocable permits to private parties.
      "Sec. 43. [Transfer of Records.] (a) There are hereby transferred
    to the State of Hawaii all records and other papers that were made
    or received by any Federal or territorial agency, or any
    predecessor thereof, in connection with the performance of
    functions assumed in whole or in substantial part by the State of
    Hawaii. There are hereby also transferred to the State of Hawaii
    all records and other papers in the custody of the Public Archives
    of Hawaii that were made or received by any Federal agency.
      "(b) There are also hereby transferred to the State of Hawaii all
    books, publications, and legal reference materials which are owned
    by the United States and which were, prior to the admission of
    Hawaii to the Union, placed in the custody of courts, libraries, or
    territorial agencies in Hawaii in order to facilitate the
    performance of functions conferred on such courts or agencies by
    Federal law.
      "Sec. 44. [Use of G.S.A. Services or Facilities.] The
    Administrator of General Services is authorized to make available
    to the State of Hawaii such services or facilities as are
    determined by the Administrator to be necessary for an interim
    period, pending provision of such services or facilities by the
    State of Hawaii. Such interim period shall not extend beyond August
    21, 1964. Payment shall be made to the General Services
    Administration by the State of Hawaii for the cost of such services
    or facilities to the Federal Government, as determined by the
    Administrator.
      "Sec. 45. [Purchase of Typewriters.] Title I of the Independent
    Offices Appropriation Act, 1960, is amended by striking out the
    words 'for the purchase within the continental limits of the United
    States of any typewriting machines' and inserting in lieu thereof
    'for the purchase within the States of the Union and the District
    of Columbia of any typewriting machines'.
      "Sec. 46. [Federal Maritime Board.] Section 18(a) of the Act of
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 12), providing for the admission of the
    State of Hawaii into the Union, is amended by striking out the
    words 'or is conferring' and inserting in lieu thereof the words
    'or as conferring'.
      "Sec. 47. [Effective Dates.] (a) The amendments made by section
    14(a)(2)(A), by section 23(a), by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of
    section 29(d), by subsection (b), and paragraphs (1) and (3) of
    subsection (a), of section 30, and, except as provided in
    subsection (g) of this section, by section 20(b) shall be
    applicable in the case of promulgations or computations of Federal
    shares, allotment percentages, allotment ratios, and Federal
    percentages, as the case may be, made after August 21, 1959.
      "(b) The amendments made by paragraph (2) of section 30(a) shall
    be effective with the beginning of the calendar quarter in which
    this Act is enacted. The Secretary of Health, Education, and
    Welfare shall, as soon as possible after enactment of this Act,
    promulgate a Federal percentage for Hawaii determined in accordance
    with the provisions of subparagraph (B) of section 1101(a)(8) of
    the Social Security Act, such promulgation to be effective for the
    period beginning with the beginning of the calendar quarter in
    which this Act is enacted and ending with the close of June 30,
    1961.
      "(c) The amendment made by paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection
    (b) and paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (d) of section
    14 shall be applicable in the case of fiscal years beginning after
    June 30, 1960.
      "(d) The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (3) of section
    14(a) shall be applicable, in the case of allotments under section
    302(b) or 502 of the National Defense Education Act of 1958, for
    fiscal years beginning after June 30, 1960, and, in the case of
    allotments under section 302(a) of such Act, for fiscal years
    beginning after allotment ratios, to which the amendment made by
    paragraph (2) of section 14(a) is applicable, are promulgated under
    such section 302(a).
      "(e) The amendment made by section 30(c)(1) shall be applicable
    in the case of deaths occurring on or after August 21, 1959.
      "(f) The amendments made by subsection (c), paragraphs (3) and
    (4) of subsection (b), and paragraph (4) of subsection (d) of
    section 14, by section 20(a), by section 23(b), by subsections (a),
    (b), and (c), and paragraph (4) of subsection (d), of section 29,
    and by subsection (d), and paragraph (2) of subsection (c), of
    section 30 shall become effective on August 21, 1959.
      "(g)(1) The allotment percentage determined for Alaska under
    section 11(h) of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended by
    this Act, for the first, second, third, and fourth years for which
    such percentage is based on the per capita income data for Alaska
    shall be increased by 76 per centum, 64 per centum, 52 per centum,
    and 28 per centum, respectively, of the difference between such
    allotment percentage for the year involved and 75 per centum.
      "(2) The Federal share for Alaska determined under section 11(i)
    of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act, as amended by this Act, for
    the first year for which such Federal share is based on per capita
    income data for Alaska shall be increased by 70 per centum of the
    difference between such Federal share for such year and 60 per
    centum.
      "(3) If such first year for which such Federal share is based on
    per capita income data for Alaska is any fiscal year ending prior
    to July 1, 1962, the adjusted Federal share for Alaska for such
    year for purposes of section 2(b) of the Vocational Rehabilitation
    Act shall notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (3)(A) of
    such section 2(b), be the Federal share determined pursuant to
    paragraph (2) of this subsection.
      "(4) Section 47(c) of the Alaska Omnibus Act (Public Law 86-70)
    is repealed.
      "Sec. 48. [Administration of Palmyra, Midway, and Wake Islands.]
    Until Congress shall provide for the government of Palmyra Island,
    Midway Island, and Wake Island, all executive and legislative
    authority necessary for the civil administration of Palmyra Island,
    Midway Island and Wake Island, and all judicial authority other
    than that contained in the Act of June 15, 1950 (64 Stat. 217), as
    amended, shall continue to be vested in such person or persons and
    shall be exercised in such manner and through such agency or
    agencies as the President of the United States may direct or
    authorize. In the case of Palmyra Island, such person or persons
    may confer upon the United States District Court for the District
    of Hawaii such jurisdiction (in addition to that contained in such
    Act of June 15, 1950), and such judicial functions and duties as he
    or they may deem appropriate for the civil administration of such
    island.
      "Sec. 49. [Other Subjects.] The amendment by this Act of certain
    statutes by deleting therefrom specific references to Hawaii or
    such phrases as 'Territory of Hawaii' shall not be construed to
    affect the applicability or inapplicability in or to Hawaii of
    other statutes not so amended.
      "Sec. 50. [Separability.] If any provision of this Act, or the
    application thereof to any person or circumstances, is held
    invalid, the remainder of this Act, and the application of such
    provision to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected
    thereby."

           CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN SURPLUS FEDERAL LANDS IN HAWAII       

                PUB. L. 88-233, DEC. 23, 1963, 77 STAT. 472            
      "[Sec. 1. Procedure for conveyance to Hawaii of surplus Federal
    lands held as ceded, Statehood, permit and Sand Island lands; terms
    and conditions; monetary consideration; fair market value for
    improvements; disposal under other applicable laws; proportional
    payment of proceeds.] That (a)(i) whenever after August 21, 1964,
    any of the public lands and other public property as defined in
    section 5(g) of Public Law 86-3 (73 Stat. 4, 6) [set out as a note
    above], or any lands acquired by the Territory of Hawaii and its
    subdivisions, which are the property of the United States pursuant
    to section 5(c) or become the property of the United States
    pursuant to section 5(d) of Public Law 86-3, except the lands
    administered pursuant to the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535),
    as amended [sections 1 to 4 of Title 16, Conservation] and (ii)
    whenever any of the lands of the United States on Sand Island,
    including the reef lands in connection therewith, in the city and
    county of Honolulu, are determined to be surplus property by the
    Administrator of General Services (hereinafter referred to as the
    "Administrator") with the concurrence of the head of the department
    or agency exercising administration or control over such lands and
    property, they shall be conveyed to the State of Hawaii by the
    Administrator subject to the provisions of this Act.
      "(b) Such lands and property shall be conveyed without monetary
    consideration, but subject to such other terms and conditions as
    the Administrator may prescribe: Provided, That, as a condition
    precedent to the conveyance of such lands, the Administrator shall
    require payment by the State of Hawaii of the estimated fair market
    value, as determined by the Administrator, of any buildings,
    structures, and other improvements erected and made on such lands
    after they were set aside. In the event that the State of Hawaii
    does not agree to any payment prescribed by the Administrator, he
    may remove, relocate, and otherwise dispose of any such buildings,
    structures, and other improvements under other applicable laws, or
    if the Administrator determines that they cannot be removed without
    substantial damage to them or the lands containing them, he may
    dispose of them and the lands involved under other applicable laws,
    but, in such cases he shall pay to the State of Hawaii that portion
    of any proceeds from such disposal which he estimates to be equal
    to the value of the lands involved. Nothing in this section shall
    prevent the disposal by the Administrator under other applicable
    laws of the lands subject to conveyance to the State of Hawaii
    under this section if the State of Hawaii so chooses.
      "Sec. 2. [Public trust; terms and conditions.] Any lands,
    property, improvements, and proceeds conveyed or paid to the State
    of Hawaii under section 1 of this Act shall be considered a part of
    public trust established by section 5(f) of Public Law 86-3 [set
    out above], and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of
    that trust."


-EXEC-
      PROC. NO. 3309. ADMISSION OF THE STATE OF HAWAII INTO THE UNION  
      Proc. No. 3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 24 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74,
    provided:
      WHEREAS the Congress of the United States by the act approved on
    March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4) [set out above], accepted, ratified,
    and confirmed the constitution adopted by a vote of the people of
    Hawaii in an election held on November 7, 1950, and provided for
    the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union on an equal
    footing with the other States upon compliance with certain
    procedural requirements specified in that act; and
      WHEREAS it appears from the information before me that a majority
    of the legal votes cast at an election on June 27, 1959, were in
    favor of each of the propositions required to be submitted to the
    people of Hawaii by section 7(b) of the act of March 18, 1959 [set
    out above]; and
      WHEREAS it further appears from information before me that a
    general election was held on July 28, 1959, and that the returns of
    the general election were made and certified as provided in the act
    of March 18, 1959 [set out above]; and
      WHEREAS the Governor of Hawaii has certified to me the results of
    the submission to the people of Hawaii of the three propositions
    set forth in section 7(b) of the act of March 18, 1959 [set out
    above], and the results of the general election; and
      WHEREAS I find and announce that the people of Hawaii have duly
    adopted the propositions required to be submitted to them by the
    act of March 18, 1959 [set out above], and have duly elected the
    officers required to be elected by that act:
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, President of the United
    States of America, do hereby declare and proclaim that the
    procedural requirements imposed by the Congress on the State of
    Hawaii to entitle that State to admission into the Union have been
    complied with in all respects and that admission of the State of
    Hawaii into the Union on an equal footing with the other States of
    the Union is now accomplished.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the
    Seal of the United States of America to be affixed.
     DONE at the City of Washington at four p.m. E.D.T. on this twenty-
          first day of August in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
          and fifty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States
          of America the one hundred and eighty-fourth.

                                                   Dwight D. Eisenhower.
    [seal]

    EX. ORD. NO. 11048. ADMINISTRATION OF WAKE ISLAND AND MIDWAY ISLAND
      Ex. Ord. No. 11048, Sept. 4, 1962, 27 F.R. 8851, as amended by
    Ex. Ord. No. 13022, Sec. 1, Oct. 31, 1996, 61 F.R. 56875, provided:
      By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 48 of the
    Hawaii Omnibus Act (approved July 12, 1960; 74 Stat. 424; P.L. 86-
    624) [set out above] and section 301 of title 3 of the United
    States Code and as President of the United States, it is hereby
    ordered as follows:

                           PART I - WAKE ISLAND                       
      Section 101. The Secretary of the Interior shall be responsible
    for the civil administration of Wake Island and all executive and
    legislative authority necessary for that administration, and all
    judicial authority respecting Wake Island other than the authority
    contained in the act of June 15, 1950 (64 Stat. 217), as amended
    (48 U.S.C. 644a), shall be vested in the Secretary of the Interior.
      Sec. 102. The executive, legislative, and judicial authority
    provided for in section 101 of this order (1) may be exercised
    through such agency or agencies of the Department of the Interior,
    or through such officers or employees under the jurisdiction of the
    Secretary of the Interior, as the Secretary may direct or
    authorize, (2) may be exercised through such agency or agencies,
    other than or not in the Department of the Interior, or through
    such officers or employees of the United States not under the
    administrative supervision of the Secretary, for such time and
    under such conditions as may be agreed upon between the Secretary
    and such agency, agencies, officers or employees of the United
    States, and (3) shall be exercised in such manner as the Secretary,
    or any person or persons acting under the authority of the
    Secretary, may direct or authorize.
      Sec. 103. Executive Order No. 6935 of December 29, 1934, to the
    extent that it pertains to Wake Island, is hereby superseded.

                          PART II - MIDWAY ISLAND                      
      [Superseded by Ex. Ord. No. 13022, Sec. 1, Oct. 31, 1996, 61 F.R.
    56875]

                    PART III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS                
      Section 301. The provisions of each of the foregoing Parts of
    this order shall continue in force until the Congress shall provide
    for the civil administration of the affected Island or until such
    earlier time as the President may specify.
      Sec. 302. As used herein, the terms "Wake Island" and "Midway
    Island" include the reefs appurtenant to, and the territorial
    waters of, Wake Island and Midway Island, respectively.
      Sec. 303. To the extent that any prior Executive order or
    proclamation is inconsistent with the provisions of this order,
    this order shall control.
      Sec. 304. This order shall not be deemed to affect Executive
    Order No. 9709 of March 29, 1946, or Executive Order No. 9797 of
    November 6, 1946.
      Sec. 305. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to reduce, limit,
    or otherwise modify the authority or responsibility of the Attorney
    General to represent the legal interests of the United States in
    civil or criminal cases arising under the provisions of the act of
    June 15, 1950.

         EX. ORD. NO. 13022. ADMINISTRATION OF THE MIDWAY ISLANDS     
      Ex. Ord. No. 13022, Oct. 31, 1996, 61 F.R. 56875, provided:
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
    and the laws of the United States of America, including section 48
    of the Hawaii Omnibus Act, Public Law 86-624 [set out above], and
    section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as
    follows:
      Section 1. The Midway Islands, Hawaiian group, and their
    territorial seas, located approximately between the parallels of 28
    degrees 5 minutes and 28 degrees 25 minutes North latitude and
    between the meridians of 177 degrees 10 minutes and 177 degrees 30
    minutes West longitude, were placed under the jurisdiction and
    control of the Department of the Navy by the provisions of
    Executive Order 199-A of January 20, 1903, and Part II of Executive
    Order 11048 of September 4, 1962, and are hereby transferred to the
    jurisdiction and control of the Department of the Interior. The
    provisions of Executive Order 199-A of January 20, 1903, and the
    provisions of Executive Order 11048 of September 4, 1962, that
    pertain to the Midway Islands are hereby superseded.
      Sec. 2. The Midway Islands Naval Defensive Sea Area and the
    Midway Islands Naval Airspace Reservation are hereby dissolved. The
    provisions of Executive Order 8682 of February 14, 1941, as amended
    by Executive Order 8729 of April 2, 1941, are hereby superseded.
      Sec. 3. (a) The Secretary of the Interior, through the United
    States Fish and Wildlife Service, shall administer the Midway
    Islands as the Midway Atoll National Wildlife Refuge in a manner
    consistent with Executive Order 12996 of March 25, 1996 [16 U.S.C.
    668dd note], for the following purposes:
      (1) maintaining and restoring natural biological diversity within
    the refuge;
      (2) providing for the conservation and management of fish and
    wildlife and their habitats within the refuge;
      (3) fulfilling the international treaty obligations of the United
    States with respect to fish and wildlife;
      (4) providing opportunities for scientific research,
    environmental education, and compatible wildlife dependent
    recreational activities; and
      (5) in a manner compatible with refuge purposes, shall recognize
    and maintain the historic significance of the Midway Islands
    consistent with the policy stated in Executive Order 11593 of May
    13, 1971 [16 U.S.C. 470 note].
      (b) The Secretary of the Interior shall be responsible for the
    civil administration of the Midway Islands and all executive and
    legislative authority necessary for that administration, and all
    judicial authority respecting the Midway Islands other than the
    authority contained in 48 U.S.C. 644a.
      Sec. 4. Any civil or criminal proceeding that is pending under
    the Midway Islands Code, 32 CFR Part 762, upon the date of this
    order, shall remain under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the
    Navy. Actions arising after the date of this order are the
    responsibility of the Secretary of the Interior and shall be
    administered pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Secretary
    of the Interior.
      Sec. 5. To the extent that any prior Executive order or
    proclamation is inconsistent with the provisions of this order,
    this order shall control.
      Sec. 6. Nothing in this order shall be deemed to reduce, limit,
    or otherwise modify the authority or responsibility of the Attorney
    General of the United States to represent the legal interests of
    the United States in civil or criminal cases arising under the
    provisions of 48 U.S.C. 644a.
                                                     William J. Clinton.

                          DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS                      
      Ex. Ord. No. 11230, June 28, 1965, 30 F.R. 8447, under which the
    functions of the President under section 5(e) of the Hawaii
    Statehood Act of Mar. 18, 1959, [set out above], were delegated to
    the Director of the Bureau of the Budget [now Director of Office of
    Management and Budget], was superseded by Ex. Ord. No. 11609, July
    22, 1971, 36 F.R. 13747, set out under section 301 of Title 3, The
    President.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 491 to 503                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 491 to 503. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 491 to 503, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 491, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 141,
    gave name Territory of Hawaii to Hawaiian Islands.
      Section 492, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 3, 31 Stat. 141,
    established a Territorial government with its capital at Honolulu.
      Section 493, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 1, 31 Stat. 141,
    defined "the laws of Hawaii" as used in this chapter.
      Section 494, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 4, 31 Stat. 141,
    granted United States citizenship to citizens of former Republic of
    Hawaii and Territorial citizenship to United States citizens
    resident in Territory under certain conditions.
      Section 495, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 5, 31 Stat. 141;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 1, 36 Stat. 443; Apr. 12, 1930, ch.
    136, Sec. 1(a), 46 Stat. 160; June 6, 1932, ch. 209, Sec. 116(b),
    47 Stat. 205, made applicable to Territory the United States
    Constitution and all other laws of the United States including laws
    carrying general appropriations.
      Section 496, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 6, 31 Stat. 142,
    continued in force laws of Hawaii not inconsistent with the
    Constitution or laws of the United States.
      Section 497, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 74, 31 Stat. 155,
    continued in force laws of Hawaii relating to agriculture and
    forestry subject to modification by Congress or the Legislature.
      Section 498, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 102, 31 Stat. 161,
    related to abolishment of laws related to postal savings banks.
      Section 499, Joint Res. July 7, 1898, No. 55, Sec. 1, 30 Stat.
    751, provided for assumption of public debt of Hawaii existing on
    July 7, 1898, not to exceed $4,000,000.
      Section 500, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 9, 31 Stat. 143,
    amended the laws of Hawaii to read "Governor of the Territory" or
    "Territory" as the context required whenever reference was made to
    "President of the Republic" or "Republic" in the laws.
      Section 501, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 143,
    continued in effect and transferred to Territory of Hawaii prior
    rights in favor and against the former Republic of Hawaii and
    preserved all criminal proceedings.
      Section 502, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 143,
    prohibited suits for specific performance of personal labor
    contracts.
      Section 503, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 143,
    provided that contracts made between Apr. 12, 1898, and Apr. 30,
    1900, providing for service for a definite term, should be null and
    void.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 504                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 504. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 504. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, Sec.
      403(a)(6), 66 Stat. 279.
      Section, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 143,
    related to applicability of immigration contract labor law. See
    section 1151 et seq. of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 505 to 518                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 505 to 518. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 505 to 518, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 505, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 11, 31 Stat. 144,
    prescribed the style of process in courts.
      Section 506, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Secs. 95, 96, 31 Stat.
    160, made certain fisheries free to United States citizens subject
    to vested rights.
      Section 507, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 96, 31 Stat. 160,
    provided for condemnation of private fishing rights.
      Section 508, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 97, 31 Stat. 160;
    July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title IX, Sec. 913, formerly title VI, Sec.
    611, 58 Stat. 714, provided that jurisdiction of health laws remain
    under the control of Territory of Hawaii.
      Section 509, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 98, 31 Stat. 161,
    allowed American registry of Hawaiian-registered vessels.
      Section 510, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 89, 31 Stat. 159;
    Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, Secs. 1, 20, 63 Stat. 496, 561; June 29,
    1954, ch. 418, 68 Stat. 323, placed control of wharves and landings
    under Territory of Hawaii.
      Section 511, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 91, 31 Stat. 159;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 7, 36 Stat. 447; June 19, 1930, ch.
    546, 46 Stat. 789; Aug. 21, 1958, Pub. L. 85-719, Sec. 1, 72 Stat.
    709, gave to Territory of Hawaii control of public property ceded
    to United States by Republic of Hawaii and allowed transfer of
    title to political subdivisions of Territory.
      Section 512, act May 26, 1906, ch. 2561, 34 Stat. 204, made
    provision for sale, lease, or disposal of personal or movable
    property ceded to the United States.
      Section 513, act Jan. 14, 1903, ch. 186, Secs. 1, 2, 32 Stat.
    770, called for recoinage of Hawaiian silver coins into subsidiary
    silver coins of the United States.
      Section 514, act Jan. 14, 1903, ch. 186, Sec. 3, 32 Stat. 771,
    allowed any collector of customs or internal revenue to exchange
    United States coins in his custody for Hawaiian coins under
    regulations of Secretary of the Treasury.
      Section 515, act Jan. 14, 1903, ch. 186, Sec. 4, 32 Stat. 771,
    allowed recoinage of mutilated or abraded Hawaiian coins into
    subsidiary coinage of the United States by any mint of the United
    States.
      Section 516, act Jan. 14, 1903, ch. 186, Sec. 6, 32 Stat. 771,
    made unlawful circulation as money of any silver certificate issued
    by government of Hawaiian Islands prior to Jan. 14, 1903.
      Section 517, act Jan. 14, 1903, ch. 186, Sec. 7, 32 Stat. 771,
    limited redemption of Hawaiian silver certificates or silver coin
    to redemption in manner and upon conditions set for recoinage of
    Hawaiian silver.
      Section 518, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 3390, Sec. 105, as added July
    9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 315, 42 Stat. 120, prohibited employment as a
    mechanic or laborer on any public work of persons not citizens of
    the United States or eligible for such citizenship.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 518a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 518a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 518a. Repealed. July 25, 1947, ch. 327, Sec. 1, 61 Stat. 449.
      Section, act Jan. 2, 1942, ch. 646, 55 Stat. 881, related to
    employment of nationals of the United States on public works in
    Hawaii during the national emergency.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 519                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 519. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 55, 31 Stat. 150; May
    27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 4, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec.
    302, 42 Stat. 116; June 6, 1926, ch. 512, Secs. 1, 2, 44 Stat. 710,
    711, which required two-year residence for grant of a divorce, was
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 520                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 520. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 520. Repealed. Mar. 26, 1934, ch. 88, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 467.
      Section, act May 23, 1918, ch. 84, Sec. 1, 40 Stat. 560,
    prohibited manufacture, sale, transport, etc., of intoxicating
    liquors.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 531 to 535                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 531 to 535. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 531 to 535, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 531, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 66, 31 Stat. 153;
    July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 303, 42 Stat. 116, vested executive
    power in a governor and set out his age and residence requirements,
    appointment, term, and powers in general.
      Section 532, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 67, 31 Stat. 153,
    made governor responsible for the execution of all laws and granted
    him other executive powers.
      Section 533, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 68, 31 Stat. 153,
    vested in governor powers and duties of specified former officials.
      Section 534, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 69, 31 Stat. 154;
    July 2, 1932, ch. 389, 47 Stat. 565; Aug. 21, 1958, Pub. L. 85-714,
    72 Stat. 707, called for appointment of a Secretary of Hawaii and
    set out powers and duties of his office.
      Section 535, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 70, 31 Stat. 154,
    called for secretary to perform duties of governor in event of
    governor's death, removal, resignation, or disability.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 536                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 536. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 536. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-3, Sec. 14(e), Mar. 18, 1959, 73
      Stat. 10.
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 92, 31 Stat. 159; May
    27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 8, 36 Stat. 448; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec.
    314, 42 Stat. 120; Oct. 15, 1949, ch. 695, Sec. 5(a), 63 Stat. 680,
    prescribed salary of governor and secretary of Territory of Hawaii,
    and specified incidental expenses of governor.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 537, 538                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 537, 538. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 537 and 538, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 537, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 71, 31 Stat. 154,
    prescribed powers and duties of attorney general of Hawaii.
      Section 538, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 72, 31 Stat. 154,
    prescribed powers and duties of treasurer of Hawaii.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 539                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 539. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 539. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-3, Sec. 14(e), Mar. 18, 1959, 73
      Stat. 10.
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 92, 31 Stat. 159; May
    27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 8, 36 Stat. 448; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec.
    314, 42 Stat. 120, authorized governor to employ a private
    secretary at an annual salary of $3,000.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 540                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 540. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 75, 31 Stat. 155, which
    prescribed powers and duties of superintendent of public works, was
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 541                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 541. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 541. Repealed. Pub. L. 96-470, title I, Sec. 110, Oct. 19,
      1980, 94 Stat. 2239.
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 76, 31 Stat. 155; Apr.
    8, 1904, ch. 948, 33 Stat. 164; Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec. 3, 37
    Stat. 737, prescribed powers and duties of the superintendent of
    public instruction.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 542 to 546                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 542 to 546. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 542 to 546, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 542, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 77, 31 Stat. 156;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 862, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 920, created posts of
    auditor and deputy auditor and prescribed their powers and duties.
      Section 542a, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 77A, as added Aug.
    1, 1956, ch. 862, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 920, created position of post
    auditor and set out his duties, term, and powers.
      Section 543, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 78, 31 Stat. 156,
    prescribed powers and duties of surveyor.
      Section 544, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 79, 31 Stat. 156,
    prescribed powers and duties of high sheriff and deputies.
      Section 545, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 106, as added July
    9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 315, 42 Stat. 121, and amended Aug. 14, 1958,
    Pub. L. 85-650, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 606, prescribed powers and duties
    of board of harbor commissioners and called for board supervision
    of moneys appropriated for harbor improvements.
      Section 546, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 80, 31 Stat. 156;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1465, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 1035; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 312, 42 Stat. 119; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 862, Sec. 1, 70 Stat.
    920; Aug. 28, 1958, Pub. L. 85-793, Secs. 1, 2, 72 Stat. 957, dealt
    with nomination and appointment of officers by governor and
    provided for their terms and salaries.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 561 to 599                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 561 to 599. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 561 to 599, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 561, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 12, 31 Stat. 144,
    called for a bicameral legislature for Territory consisting of a
    senate and house of representatives.
      Section 562, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 55, 31 Stat. 150;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 4, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42,
    Sec. 302, 42 Stat. 116; June 9, 1926, ch. 512, Secs. 1, 2, 44 Stat.
    710, 711; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 7, 70 Stat. 907; Aug. 20,
    1958, Pub. L. 85-691, Sec. 3, 72 Stat. 685, described scope of
    legislative power.
      Section 562a, act July 15, 1935, ch. 378, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 479,
    authorized issuance of revenue bonds by legislature and empowered
    legislature to authorize issuance of bonds by political or
    municipal corporations or subdivisions.
      Section 562b, act July 15, 1935, ch. 378, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 480,
    empowered legislature to authorize city and county of Honolulu to
    issue flood control bonds.
      Section 562c, act July 15, 1935, ch. 378, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 480,
    approved, ratified, and confirmed issuance of revenue bonds which
    had been authorized by legislature prior to July 15, 1935.
      Section 562c-1, act Apr. 3, 1944, ch. 154, 58 Stat. 186, ratified
    and confirmed legislative action which had extended time within
    which revenue bonds could be issued without presidential approval
    and without reference to Hawaiian Organic Act.
      Section 562c-2, act July 30, 1947, ch. 396, 61 Stat. 676,
    ratified and confirmed legislative action which had extended time
    within which revenue bonds could be issued without presidential
    approval and without reference to Hawaiian Organic Act.
      Section 562d, act Aug. 31, 1935, ch. 436, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 516,
    empowered legislature to authorize issuance of revenue bonds by
    political or municipal corporations or subdivisions of Territory
    and confirmed and ratified acts of legislature prior to Aug. 3,
    1935, which authorized issuance of revenue bonds.
      Section 562e, acts Aug. 3, 1935, ch. 436, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 517;
    May 28, 1937, ch. 274, 50 Stat. 211; July 10, 1937, ch. 486, 50
    Stat. 509, authorized Territory to issue public improvement bonds.
      Section 562e-1, act June 29, 1954, ch. 417, 68 Stat. 322,
    ratified and confirmed Revenue Bond Act of 1935, as amended,
    through the 1953 regular session of legislature.
      Section 562f, act July 10, 1937, ch. 485, 50 Stat. 508,
    authorized issuance of public improvement bonds by Territory.
      Section 562g, acts July 10, 1937, ch. 484, 50 Stat. 508; July 18,
    1950, title II, Sec. 202(a), 64 Stat. 345, authorized legislature
    to establish authorities for slum clearance and housing projects,
    made provision for issuance of bonds therefor, ratified and
    confirmed prior legislation on subject, and provided that powers
    granted should not be in derogation of other powers granted by
    other laws.
      Section 562h, act July 10, 1937, ch. 483, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 507,
    empowered legislature to authorize city and county of Honolulu to
    issue general obligation bonds to permit construction of a sewer
    system.
      Section 562i, act July 10, 1937, ch. 483, Sec. 2, 50 Stat. 507,
    dealt with nature of Honolulu sewer system bonds and provided for
    their maturity.
      Section 562j, act July 10, 1937, ch. 483, Sec. 3, 50 Stat. 507,
    ratified and confirmed action taken by legislature in its 1937
    session pertaining to issuance of sewer bonds.
      Section 562k, act July 18, 1947, ch. 265, 61 Stat. 381, permitted
    legislature to authorize issue of additional general obligation
    bonds by city and county of Honolulu for construction of a sewer
    system and ratified actions taken in 1947 session of legislature
    pertaining to issuance of sewer system bonds.
      Section 562l, act July 15, 1947, ch. 250, 61 Stat. 326,
    authorized and empowered Territory to issue public improvement
    bonds during 1947-1951 and provided for maturity of such bonds and
    their issuance without presidential approval.
      Section 562m, act Oct. 26, 1949, ch. 754, Secs. 1-3, 63 Stat.
    926, authorized and empowered Territory to issue public improvement
    bonds during 1949-1955, and provided for their maturity and
    issuance without presidential approval.
      Section 562n, acts Aug. 24, 1954, ch. 889, Secs. 1-3, 68 Stat.
    782; July 14, 1956, ch. 606, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 552; Aug. 20, 1958,
    Pub. L. 85-691, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 685, empowered legislature to
    authorize issuance of general obligation bonds for veterans'
    mortgages and provided for their limitation, maturity, and
    ratification.
      Section 562o, acts Aug. 24, 1954, ch. 892, Secs. 1, 3, 4, 68
    Stat. 785; July 14, 1956, ch. 606, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 552; Aug. 20,
    1958, Pub. L. 85-691, Sec. 2, 72 Stat. 685, ratified and confirmed
    issuance of public improvement bonds issued during 1954 to 1959 and
    limited maturity date of such bonds.
      Section 562p, act Aug. 24, 1954, ch. 896, Secs. 1-3, 68 Stat.
    787, empowered legislature to authorize city and county of Honolulu
    to issue public improvement bonds for construction of sewerage
    systems in Honolulu.
      Section 562q, act Aug. 24, 1954, ch. 898, Secs. 1-3, 68 Stat.
    788, empowered legislature to authorize city and county of Honolulu
    to issue public improvement bonds for construction of flood-control
    and drainage systems in Honolulu.
      Section 562r, act July 11, 1956, ch. 567, Secs. 1-3, 70 Stat.
    526, ratified and confirmed issuance of general obligation bonds by
    city and county of Honolulu and authorized issuance of additional
    bonds, setting a limit on size of such issue.
      Section 562s, act July 14, 1956, ch. 602, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 545,
    authorized Territory to issue revenue bonds for highway
    construction payable from funds derived from highway vehicle fuel
    taxes.
      Section 562t, act July 14, 1956, ch. 602, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 545,
    set out certain requirements for bonds issued under section 562s.
      Section 562u, act July 14, 1956, ch. 602, Sec. 3, 70 Stat. 545,
    allowed application of federal-aid highway funds to aid in
    retirement of highway bonds.
      Section 562v, act July 14, 1956, ch. 602, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 545,
    defined "highway fuel taxes" as used in sections 562s-562v.
      Section 562w, Pub. L. 85-534, Sec. 2, July 18, 1958, 72 Stat.
    379, authorized Territory to issue aviation revenue bonds, set out
    requirements and limitations thereof, allowed for retirement
    thereof with Federal funds, and defined "aviation fuel taxes".
      Section 563, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 56, 31 Stat. 151;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1465, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 1035, empowered
    legislature to create town and city municipalities and provide for
    government thereof.
      Section 564, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 13, 31 Stat. 144,
    prohibited persons from sitting as senators and representatives in
    legislature except in conformity with statutory provisions
    therefor.
      Section 565, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 30, 31 Stat. 146;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 903, provided for number of
    senators and for the length of their term.
      Section 566, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 34, 31 Stat. 147;
    Sept. 15, 1922, ch. 315, 42 Stat. 844, set out age, citizenship,
    and residence requirements of senators.
      Section 567, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 31, 31 Stat. 146,
    called for filling of vacancies in senate caused by death,
    resignation, or otherwise through general or special elections.
      Section 568, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 32, 31 Stat. 147;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 2, 70 Stat. 903, divided Territory into
    senatorial districts.
      Section 569, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 32, 31 Stat. 147;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 3, 70 Stat. 903, apportioned senators
    between various senatorial districts.
      Section 570, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 35, 31 Stat. 147;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 4, 70 Stat. 903, set out number of
    representatives and called for their election by qualified voters
    of respective representative districts.
      Section 571, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 40, 31 Stat. 148;
    Sept. 15, 1922, ch. 315, 42 Stat. 844, stated age, citizenship, and
    residence requirements of representatives.
      Section 572, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 36, 31 Stat. 147,
    placed term of office of representatives as period between their
    election at a general or special election and next general election
    held thereafter.
      Section 573, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 37, 31 Stat. 147,
    directed that vacancies in house of representatives caused by
    death, resignations, or otherwise be filled by special elections.
      Section 574, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 38, 31 Stat. 147;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 5, 70 Stat. 906, divided Territory into
    representative districts.
      Section 575, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 30, 31 Stat. 148;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 851, Sec. 6, 70 Stat. 906, apportioned
    representatives between the representative districts.
      Section 576, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Secs. 41-43, 31 Stat.
    148; Aug. 20, 1958, Pub. L. 85-690, Secs. 1, 2, 72 Stat. 684, set
    date for regular and budget sessions, commencement, duration, and
    adjournment, and budget session agenda.
      Section 577, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 44, 31 Stat. 148,
    set out enacting clause of all laws and required that all
    legislative sessions be conducted in English language.
      Section 578, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 45, 31 Stat. 148,
    required that each law embrace but one subject and that its subject
    be expressed in its title.
      Section 579, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 46, 31 Stat. 148,
    covered passage of bills on three readings on separate days and
    final passage by a majority vote of all members to which each house
    is entitled taken by ayes and noes and entered upon journal.
      Section 580, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 47, 31 Stat. 149,
    provided for certification of bills by the presiding officer or
    clerk of the house just passed and immediate submission to other
    house for consideration.
      Section 581, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 49, 31 Stat. 149,
    made provision for veto or approval of bills and allowed veto of
    specific items in appropriation bills while requiring veto of all
    other bills only in their entirety.
      Section 582, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 48, 31 Stat. 149,
    required signature of governor to make valid all bills passed by
    legislature except as otherwise provided.
      Section 583, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 50, 31 Stat. 149,
    set out procedure to be followed by legislature in event of a veto
    by governor.
      Section 584, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 51, 31 Stat. 149,
    set out effect to be given governor's failure to sign, veto, or
    return a bill passed by legislature and sent to him.
      Section 585, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 52, 31 Stat. 149;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 3, 36 Stat. 444, required that
    appropriation be made by legislature except as otherwise provided.
      Section 586, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 53, 31 Stat. 149;
    Aug. 20, 1958, Pub. L. 85-690, Sec. 3, 72 Stat. 684, required
    governor to submit to legislative estimates of appropriations for
    succeeding biennial period or for succeeding fiscal year in event
    of an additional regular session of legislature.
      Section 587, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 54, 31 Stat. 150,
    made provision for calling of an extra session of the legislature
    and payment by treasurer of current expenses in event of failure of
    legislature to pass appropriation bills covering necessary current
    expenses.
      Section 588, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 16, 31 Stat. 145;
    Oct. 26, 1949, ch. 752, 63 Stat. 926, prohibited appointment or
    election of a member of legislature to any office of Territory
    during term for which he was elected.
      Section 589, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 17, 31 Stat. 145,
    made ineligible to hold office of member of legislature any person
    holding office in or under or by authority of Government of United
    States or Territory of Hawaii.
      Section 590, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 18, 31 Stat. 145,
    made ineligible to vote for or hold office in legislature all idiot
    or insane persons, persons expelled from legislature for bribery,
    and persons convicted of criminal offenses punishable by
    imprisonment for a term exceeding one year unless person was
    convicted and subsequently had his civil rights restored.
      Section 591, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 19, 31 Stat. 145,
    prescribed oath to be taken by legislators and territorial
    officers.
      Section 592, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 20, 31 Stat. 145,
    called for senate and house of representatives to choose their own
    officers, determine rules and keep a journal.
      Section 593, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 21, 31 Stat. 145,
    required that, at desire of one-fifth of members present, ayes and
    noes of members be entered on journal.
      Section 594, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Secs. 22-24, 31 Stat.
    145, set out attendance required for a quorum of each house of
    legislature, votes required for final passage of a law,
    adjournment, absentees, and a count of members present by chairman.
      Section 595, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 28, 31 Stat. 146,
    granted members of legislature a privilege for any word uttered in
    exercise of their legislative functions in either house.
      Section 596, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 27, 31 Stat. 146,
    authorized each house of legislature to punish its members by
    censure for disorderly behavior or neglect of duty and to suspend
    or expel its members by a two-thirds vote.
      Section 597, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 25, 31 Stat. 146,
    authorized each house to punish non-members for contempt but
    granted a person so charged right to be informed of charges,
    present evidence, and be heard in his own defense.
      Section 598, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 29, 31 Stat. 146,
    granted members of legislature a privilege from arrest, except in
    cases of treason, felony, or breach of peace, during their
    attendance at sessions in their respective houses.
      Section 599, acts Apr. 30, 1910, ch. 339, Sec. 26, 31 Stat. 146;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 2, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42,
    Sec. 301, 42 Stat. 115; June 27, 1930, ch. 647, 46 Stat. 824; Aug.
    20, 1958, Pub. L. 85-690, Sec. 4, 72 Stat. 684, set out
    compensation and additional compensation to be paid members of
    legislature.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 611 to 620                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 611 to 620. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 611 to 620, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 611, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 14, 31 Stat. 144,
    called general elections to be held on the Tuesday next after first
    Monday in November, biennially in even-numbered years.
      Section 612, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 15, 31 Stat. 145,
    made each house judge of elections, returns, and qualifications of
    its own members.
      Section 613, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Secs. 57, 58, 31 Stat.
    151, granted each elector a privilege from military duty on
    election day in any way which would deprive him of his vote except
    in time of war or public danger and also granted a privilege from
    arrest while going to and returning from attendance at election
    except in certain cases.
      Section 614, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 59, 31 Stat. 151,
    allowed each voter for representative to vote for as many
    representatives as would be elected from representative district in
    which voter was entitled to vote and gave posts of representatives
    to those candidates receiving highest number of votes.
      Section 615, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 61, 31 Stat. 152,
    allowed each voter to cast one vote for senator to be elected from
    district in which voter could vote and called for required numbers
    of candidates receiving highest number of votes to become senators
    for their districts.
      Section 616, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 62, 31 Stat. 152,
    made qualifications for voters for senator and for all other
    elections same as qualifications for voters casting votes for
    representative.
      Section 617, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 60, 31 Stat. 151;
    June 26, 1930, ch. 620, 46 Stat. 818, set out qualifications
    required for an elector to vote for representative.
      Section 618, act June 13, 1918, ch. 97, Secs. 1, 2, 4, 40 Stat.
    604, authorized extension of franchise to women, and was repealed
    by act Dec. 16, 1930, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1029. See Const.
    Amend. 19.
      Section 619, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 63, 31 Stat. 152,
    prevented from voting all persons who were in Hawaii by reason of
    being in Army or Navy or being attached to troops of the United
    States.
      Section 619a, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 64, 31 Stat. 152,
    continued in force rules and regulations for administering oaths
    and holding elections.
      Section 620, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 65, 31 Stat. 153,
    authorized legislature to establish and alter boundaries of
    election districts and voting precincts and apportion senators and
    representatives to be elected from such districts.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 631 to 633                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 631 to 633. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 631 to 633, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 631, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 81, 31 Stat. 157,
    made provision for vesting of judicial power in courts and
    continued in force the courts' jurisdiction and procedure
    previously in force.
      Section 632, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 82, 31 Stat. 157;
    June 15, 1950, ch. 250, 64 Stat. 216, set out size and organization
    of supreme court, appointment and qualifications of its members,
    and provisions for filling of vacancies therein.
      Section 633, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 80, 31 Stat. 156;
    Mar. 3, 1905, ch. 1465, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 1035; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 312, 42 Stat. 119; May 9, 1956, ch. 237, Sec. 1, 70 Stat.
    130, called for presidential appointment of members of supreme
    court and circuit courts and set tenure and qualifications of
    judges.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 634, 634a                                      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 634, 634a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 634, 634a. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-3, Sec. 14(e), Mar. 18, 1959,
      73 Stat. 10.
      Section 634, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 92, 31 Stat. 159;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 8, 36 Stat. 448; July 9, 1921, ch. 42,
    Sec. 314, 42 Stat. 120, related to salaries of justices of supreme
    court and circuit courts.
      Section 634a, acts May 29, 1928, ch. 904, Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat.
    997; Apr. 30, 1956, ch. 226, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 123, related to
    salaries of justices of supreme court and circuit courts.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 634b, 634c                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 634b, 634c. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 634b, 634c. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62
      Stat. 992.
      Section 634b, acts May 31, 1938, ch. 301, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 591;
    Apr. 16, 1946, ch. 139, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 90, related to retirement
    of justices and judges.
      Section 634c, acts May 31, 1938, ch. 301, Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 591;
    Apr. 16, 1946, ch. 139, Sec. 2, 60 Stat. 90, related to computation
    of years of service.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 635, 636                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 635, 636. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 635 and 636, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 635, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 83, 31 Stat. 157;
    Apr. 1, 1952, ch. 127, Sec. 1, 66 Stat. 32, continued in force all
    laws relating to judicial departments and procedure, but made
    certain changes with reference to membership qualifications for
    membership on juries.
      Section 636, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 84, 31 Stat. 157;
    May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 6, 36 Stat. 447, set out standards for
    disqualification of jurors who were related by affinity or
    consanguinity with a person interested in case being tried and for
    disqualification of judges in certain cases.

                              DISTRICT COURT                          

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 641 to 644                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 641 to 644. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 641 to 644. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Secs. 8, 39, 62
      Stat. 986, 992.
      Section 641, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86(a), (d), 31
    Stat. 158; Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 838; July 9,
    1921, ch. 42, Sec. 313, 42 Stat. 119; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 220, 43
    Stat. 890; Dec. 13, 1926, ch. 6, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 919; July 31,
    1946, ch. 704, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 716, related to district court,
    sessions, powers, terms. See section 81 et seq. of Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
      Section 642, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86(c), 31 Stat.
    158; Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 838; Mar. 3, 1911, ch.
    231, Sec. 291, 36 Stat. 167; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 313, 42
    Stat. 119; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 220, 43 Stat. 890, related to
    jurisdiction of district court and authority of officers. See
    sections 81 et seq., 451 et seq., 501 et seq., 531 et seq., and
    1331 et seq. of Title 28.
      Section 642a, acts Aug. 13, 1940, ch. 662, 54 Stat. 784; Apr. 29,
    1948, ch. 241, Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 204, related to jurisdiction of
    cases arising on Midway, Wake, Johnston, etc., Islands. See section
    91 of Title 28.
      Section 643, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86, 31 Stat. 158;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 838; July 9, 1921, ch. 42,
    Sec. 313, 42 Stat. 119; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 220, 43 Stat. 890,
    related to appointment and term of office of judges, district
    attorney, and marshal. See sections 133, 134, 501, 504, and 541 of
    Title 28.
      Section 644, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86, 31 Stat. 158;
    Mar. 3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 838; Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161,
    Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 1412; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 313, 42 Stat.
    119; June 1, 1922, ch. 204, title II, 42 Stat. 614, 616; Jan. 3,
    1923, ch. 21, title II, 42 Stat. 1084; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 220, 43
    Stat. 890, related to appointment and salaries of clerks, deputy
    clerks and reporters. See sections 604, 751, and 753 of Title 28.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 644a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 644a. Jurisdiction of district court of cases arising on or
      within Midway, Wake, Johnston, Sand, etc., Islands; laws
      applicable to jury trials

-STATUTE-
      The jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the
    District of Hawaii is extended to all civil and criminal cases
    arising on or within the Midway Islands, Wake Island, Johnston
    Island, Sand Island, Kingman Reef, Palmyra Island, Baker Island,
    Howland Island, Jarvis Island, and, having regard to the special
    status of Canton and Enderbury Islands pursuant to an agreement of
    April 6, 1939, between the Governments of the United States and of
    the United Kingdom to set up a regime for their use in common, the
    said jurisdiction is also extended to all civil and criminal cases
    arising on or within Canton Island and Enderbury Island: Provided,
    That such extension to Canton and Enderbury Islands shall in no way
    be construed to be prejudicial to the claims of the United Kingdom
    to said islands in accordance with the agreement. All civil acts
    and deeds consummated and taking place on any of these islands or
    in the waters adjacent thereto, and all offenses and crimes
    committed thereon, or on or in the waters adjacent thereto, shall
    be deemed to have been consummated or committed on the high seas on
    board a merchant vessel or other vessel belonging to the United
    States and shall be adjudicated and determined or adjudged and
    punished according to the laws of the United States relating to
    such civil acts or offenses on such ships or vessels on the high
    seas, which laws for the purpose aforesaid are extended over such
    islands, rocks, and keys.
      The laws of the United States relating to juries and jury trials
    shall be applicable to the trial of such cases before said district
    court.

-SOURCE-
    (June 15, 1950, ch. 253, 64 Stat. 217; Pub. L. 86-3, Sec. 14(j),
    Mar. 18, 1959, 73 Stat. 11; Pub. L. 86-624, Sec. 19, July 12, 1960,
    74 Stat. 416.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1960 - Pub. L. 86-624 struck out Kure Island.
      1959 - Pub. L. 86-3 extended jurisdiction to cases arising on or
    within Palmyra Island.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1959 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 86-3 effective on admission of the State of
    Hawaii into the Union, see note set out under section 91 of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure. Admission of Hawaii into the
    Union was accomplished Aug. 21, 1959, on issuance of Proc. No.
    3309, Aug. 21, 1959, 25 F.R. 6868, 73 Stat. c74, as required by
    sections 1 and 7(c) of Pub. L. 86-3, Mar. 18, 1959, 73 Stat. 4, set
    out as notes preceding section 491 of this title.

           CANTON AND ENDERBURY ISLANDS; SOVEREIGNTY OF KIRIBATI       
      By a treaty of friendship, TIAS 10777, which entered into force
    Sept. 23, 1983, the United States recognized the sovereignty of
    Kiribati over Canton Island and Enderbury Island.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 645                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 645. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 645. Repealed. Pub. L. 86-3, Sec. 14(f), Mar. 18, 1959, 73
      Stat. 10.
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86, 31 Stat. 158; Mar.
    3, 1909, ch. 269, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 838; Mar. 11, 1911, ch. 231,
    Sec. 291, 36 Stat. 167; Mar. 4, 1920, ch. 161, Sec. 1, 41 Stat.
    1412; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 313, 42 Stat. 119; June 1, 1922,
    ch. 204, title II, 42 Stat. 614, 616; Jan. 3, 1923, ch. 21, title
    II, 42 Stat. 1084; Feb. 12, 1925, ch. 220, 43 Stat. 890; Dec. 13,
    1926, ch. 6, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 919; Jan. 31, 1928, ch. 14, Sec. 1,
    45 Stat. 54; July 31, 1946, ch. 704, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 716; June 25,
    1948, ch. 646, Secs. 8, 39, 62 Stat. 986, 992, related to removal
    of causes and appeal. See section 91 of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure and notes thereunder.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 646                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 646. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 646. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat. 992.
      Section, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 86a, as added June 19,
    1939, ch. 211, 53 Stat. 841, related to rules in civil actions. See
    section 2072 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 651                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 651. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 85, 31 Stat. 158; June
    28, 1906, ch. 3582, 34 Stat. 550, which provided for the election
    of a Delegate to the House of Representatives of the United States
    to serve during each Congress, was omitted in view of the admission
    of Hawaii into the Union.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 661 to 678                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 661 to 678. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 661 to 678, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 661, act July 7, 1898, No. 55, Sec. 1, 30 Stat. 750,
    provided that Congress of the United States shall enact special
    laws for management and disposition of public lands.
      Section 662, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 99, 31 Stat. 161,
    which declared to be property of Hawaiian Government portion of
    public domain known prior to April 30, 1900, as Crown land.
      Section 663, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(a), (b), 31
    Stat. 154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 116, defined "public lands", "commissioner",
    "land board", and "person", and incorporated by reference certain
    other defined terms.
      Section 664, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(c), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117,
    declared that laws of Hawaii relating to public lands, settlement
    of boundaries and issuance of patents on land commission awards,
    shall continue in force until Congress shall otherwise provide.
      Section 664a, act Sept. 26, 1941, ch. 426, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 734,
    ratified Hawaiian realty transactions consummated on or before
    November 25, 1941.
      Section 664b, act Sept. 26, 1941, ch. 426, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 734,
    provided that realty transaction so ratified shall be deemed and
    held to be perfect and valid from day of date thereof.
      Section 665, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(d), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117;
    Aug. 28, 1958, Pub. L. 85-803, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 971, prescribed
    terms and conditions of leases on public lands.
      Section 666, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(e), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec.
    304, 42 Stat. 117, directed that all funds arising from sale or
    lease of public lands be appropriated by laws of government of the
    territory of Hawaii.
      Section 667, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(f), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117,
    set out requirements for those who would be entitled to receive any
    certificate of occupation, right of purchase lease, cash freehold
    agreement, or special homestead agreement. Section was also
    classified to section 1509 of this title.
      Section 668, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(g), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117,
    prescribed limitations on alienation of public lands for which
    certificates of occupancy have been issued. Section was also
    classified to section 1510 of this title.
      Section 669, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(h), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1919, ch. 258;
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 445; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 305, 42 Stat. 118,
    set out provisions for forfeiture of lands for noncompliance with
    prior provisions.
      Section 670, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(i), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 445; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 305, 42 Stat. 118;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 383, Sec. 1, 53 Stat. 1126; July 9, 1952, ch.
    617, 66 Stat. 515; Apr. 6, 1956, ch. 180, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 102;
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 854, 70 Stat. 918, determined persons entitled to
    take under certificates of occupation, lease or agreement.
      Section 671, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(j), 31, Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 445; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 306, 42 Stat. 118,
    gave commissioner, with approval of governor, right to give
    preferences in purchasing of public lands. Section was also
    classified to section 1511 of this title.
      Section 672, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(k), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 445; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 307, 42 Stat. 118,
    gave commissioner, with approval of governor, power to issue
    patents to churches or religious organizations. Section was also
    classified to section 1512 of this title.
      Section 673, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(l), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 446; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 308, 42 Stat. 118;
    Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 771, 60 Stat. 871; July 9, 1952, ch. 616, Sec. 1,
    66 Stat. 514; Apr. 6, 1956, ch. 185, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 104; Aug. 21,
    1958, Pub. L. 85-718, 72 Stat. 709; Aug. 28, 1958, Pub. L. 85-803,
    Sec. 2, 72 Stat. 971, created board of public lands and set
    restrictions upon sale and lease of agricultural lands and exchange
    of lands.
      Section 674, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(m), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56, May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 446; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 309, 42 Stat. 119,
    opened agricultural lands for settlement.
      Section 675, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(n), (p), 31
    Stat. 154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch.
    258, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 446; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Secs. 310, 311, 42
    Stat. 119, provided for survey and opening of homestead entry
    agricultural lands.
      Section 676, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(o), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 446; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 310, 42 Stat. 119,
    permitted any person under a general lease from Territory, to
    continue in possession of such land after expiration of lease until
    such time as homesteader takes actual possession thereof under any
    form of homestead agreement.
      Section 677, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 399, Sec. 73(q), 31 Stat.
    154; Apr. 2, 1908, ch. 124, 35 Stat. 56; May 27, 1910, ch. 258,
    Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 447; July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 311, 42 Stat. 119;
    Aug. 21, 1941, ch. 394, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 658; July 18, 1958, Pub.
    L. 85-534, Sec. 1, 72 Stat. 379; Aug. 14, 1958, Pub. L. 85-650,
    Sec. 2, 72 Stat. 606, improved commissioner with control,
    management, and disposition of public lands and included within
    this making of leases by Hawaiian Aeronautics commission.
      Section 677-1, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(r), as added
    Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 820, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 785, provided for
    disposition of remnants of public lands.
      Section 677a, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(par.), as added
    June 12, 1940, ch. 336, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 345, provided for
    reamortization of indebtedness under homestead agreements.
      Section 677b, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(par.), as added
    June 12, 1940, ch. 336, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 346, provided for refunds
    on account of reamortization of homestead agreements.
      Section 678, act Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 107, as added July
    9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 315, 42 Stat. 121, cited the Act of April 30,
    1900, ch. 339, 31 Stat. 141, as the "Hawaiian Organic Act".

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 691 to 718                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 691 to 718. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 691 to 718, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 691, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title I, Sec. 1, 42 Stat.
    108, cited sections 691-704 and 705-716 of this title, as the
    "Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920".
      Section 692, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 201, 42
    Stat. 108; June 18, 1954, ch. 321, Sec. 2, 68 Stat. 263, defined
    "Commission", "public lands", "fund", "Territory", "Hawaiian home
    lands", "tract", "native Hawaiian" and "irrigated pastoral land" as
    used in "Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920".
      Section 693, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 202, 42
    Stat. 109; July 26, 1935, ch. 420, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 504; May 31,
    1944, ch. 216, Sec. 1, 58 Stat. 260; July 9, 1952, ch. 618, Secs.
    1, 3, 66 Stat. 515, 516, established Hawaiian Homes Commission.
      Section 694, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 222, 42
    Stat. 115; Nov. 26, 1941, ch. 544, Sec. 7, 55 Stat. 787; June 14,
    1948, ch. 646, Sec. 8, 62 Stat. 394, empowered commission to make
    such regulations and with approval of Governor, such expenditures
    as are necessary to efficient execution of his office.
      Section 695, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 222, 42
    Stat. 115, required commission to make a biennial report to
    legislature of Territory.
      Section 696, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 222, 42
    Stat. 115, directed that executive officer and secretary give bond
    for faithful performance of his duties.
      Section 697, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 203, 42
    Stat. 109; May 16, 1934, ch. 290, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 777; Aug. 29,
    1935, ch. 810, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 966; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50
    Stat. 497; Nov. 26, 1941, ch. 544, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 782; May 31,
    1944, ch. 216, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 260; June 3, 1948, ch. 384, 62
    Stat. 295; June 3, 1948, ch. 397, 62 Stat. 303; July 9, 1952 ch.
    614, Secs. 1, 2, 66 Stat. 511, designated certain lands in
    Territory as "available land".
      Section 698, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 204, 42
    Stat. 110; Mar. 7, 1928, ch. 142, Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 246; July 10,
    1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 503; Feb. 20, 1954, ch. 10, Sec. 1, 68
    Stat. 116; June 18, 1954, ch. 319, Sec. 1, 68 Stat. 262, provided
    that after July 9, 1921, all available lands would assume status of
    Hawaiian home lands and be under control of Commission.
      Section 699, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 205, 42
    Stat. 110, provided for sale or lease of available lands.
      Section 700, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 206, 42
    Stat. 110, declared that available lands were not subject to
    disposition by Governor, Commissioner of Public Lands, or Board of
    Public Lands.
      Section 701, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 207, 42
    Stat. 110; Feb. 3, 1923, ch. 56, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 1122; May 16,
    1934, ch. 290, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 779; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50
    Stat. 504; May 31, 1944, ch. 216, Secs. 3, 4, 58 Stat. 264; June
    14, 1948, ch. 464, Secs. 1, 2, 62 Stat. 390; June 18, 1954, ch.
    321, Sec. 1, 68 Stat. 263; Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-733, 72 Stat.
    822, authorized Commission to lease lands to native Hawaiians.
      Section 702, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 208, 42
    Stat. 111; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 504; Nov. 26, 1941, ch.
    544, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 783; Aug. 21, 1958, Pub. L. 85-710, Sec. 1,
    72 Stat. 706, set up certain conditions to be included in leases of
    lands by Commission.
      Section 703, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 209, 42
    Stat. 111; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 504; Nov. 26, 1941, ch.
    544, Sec. 3, 55 Stat. 783; July 9, 1952, ch. 614, Sec. 4, 66 Stat.
    514, established rules governing successors to lessees.
      Section 704, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 210, 42
    Stat. 111, gave Commission power to cancel leases.
      Section 704a, acts May 16, 1934, ch. 200, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 779;
    July 9, 1952, ch. 614, Sec. 3, 66 Stat. 513, gave a preference to
    residents in leasing of lands.
      Section 705, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 211, 42
    Stat. 112, provided for community pastures adjacent to each
    district in which agricultural lands were leased.
      Section 706, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 212, 42
    Stat. 112, gave Commission power to return lands not leased to
    control of Commissioner of Public Lands.
      Section 707, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 213, 42
    Stat. 112; Feb. 3, 1923, ch. 56, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1222; Mar. 7,
    1928, ch. 142, Sec. 2, 45 Stat. 246; Nov. 26, 1941, ch. 544, Sec.
    4, 55 Stat. 784; June 14, 1948, ch. 464, Sec. 3, 62 Stat. 390; July
    9, 1952, ch. 615, Secs. 1, 2, 66 Stat. 514; Aug. 21, 1958, Pub. L.
    85-708, 72 Stat. 705, established in Treasury of Territory two
    revolving funds to be known as Hawaiian home-loan fund and Hawaiian
    home-operating fund, and two special funds to be known as Hawaiian
    home-development fund and Hawaiian home administration account.
      Section 707a, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 225, as
    added Nov. 26, 1941, ch. 544, Sec. 8, 55 Stat. 787, and amended
    June 14, 1948, ch. 464, Sec. 9, 62 Stat. 394, gave Commission power
    to invest and reinvest any of moneys in loan fund.
      Section 708, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 214, 42
    Stat. 112, authorized Commission to make loans from fund to lessee
    of any tract or successor to his interest therein.
      Section 709, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 215, 42
    Stat. 112; Feb. 3, 1923, ch. 56, Sec. 3, 42 Stat. 1222; July 10,
    1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 505; Nov. 26, 1941, ch. 544, Sec. 5, 55
    Stat. 785; June 14, 1948, ch. 464, Secs. 4, 5, 62 Stat. 392; July
    9, 1952, ch. 616, Secs. 3, 4, 66 Stat. 514, set up conditions to be
    followed in contracts of loan.
      Section 710, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 216, 42
    Stat. 113; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 506; June 14, 1948, ch.
    464, Sec. 6, 62 Stat. 393, gave Commission power to require
    borrower to insure all livestock and dwellings and other permanent
    improvements upon his tract purchased or constructed out of any
    moneys loaned from fund.
      Section 711, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 217, 42
    Stat. 113, gave Commission power to bring an ejectment action
    against lessee or borrower for noncompliance with Commission
    orders.
      Section 712, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 218, 42
    Stat. 114, provided that lessees of land were not to receive loans
    under Territorial Farm Land.
      Section 713, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 219, 42
    Stat. 114, authorized Commission to employ agricultural experts.
      Section 714, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 220, 42
    Stat. 114; July 10, 1937, ch. 482, 50 Stat. 507; Nov. 26, 1941, ch.
    544, Sec. 6, 55 Stat. 786; June 14, 1948, ch. 464, Sec. 7, 62 Stat.
    393; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 855, Sec. 1, 70 Stat. 915, authorized
    Commission to undertake development projects.
      Section 715, acts July 9, 1921, ch. 42, title II, Sec. 221, 42
    Stat. 114; Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 855, Secs. 2, 3, 70 Stat. 915, defined
    "water license" and "surplus water", subjected water licenses
    issued after July 9, 1921, to Commission and authorized Commission
    to use free of all charge, Government-owned water.
      Section 715a, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42 title II, Sec. 224, as
    added July 26, 1935, ch. 420, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 505, authorized
    Secretary of the Interior to designate a sanitation and reclamation
    expert.
      Section 716, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42 title II, Sec. 223, 42
    Stat. 115, reserved right in Congress, to alter, amend, or repeal
    provisions of sections 691 to 704 and 705 to 716 of this title.
      Section 717, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 401, 42 Stat. 121,
    related to acts repealed.
      Section 718, act July 9, 1921, ch. 42, Sec. 402, 42 Stat. 121,
    related to savings provisions.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 721 to 723                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Secs. 721 to 723. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 721 to 723, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of admission of Hawaii into the Union.
      Section 721, acts July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 101, 64
    Stat. 344; Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), (7), (9),
    69 Stat. 637, 638, authorized Hawaiian government to undertake slum
    clearance and urban redevelopment and renewal projects.
      Section 721a, acts July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 102, 64
    Stat. 344; Aug. 11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), 69 Stat.
    637, authorized government of Hawaii to assist slum clearance and
    urban redevelopment projects through cash donations, loans
    conveyances of real and personal property, facilities and services.
      Section 721b, act July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 103, 64
    Stat. 345, ratified all legislation enacted by Legislature of
    Territory of Hawaii dealing with subject matter of sections 721 to
    722 of this title.
      Section 722, acts July 10, 1937, ch. 484, 50 Stat. 508; July 18,
    1950, title II, Sec. 202(a), 64 Stat. 345, gave Legislature of
    Territory of Hawaii power to create public corporate authorities to
    engage in slum clearance, or housing undertaking.
      Section 723, act June 27, 1934, ch. 847, Sec. 214, as added Apr.
    23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(a), 63 Stat. 57, and amended, related to
    insurance of mortgages on property in Hawaii. See section 1715d of
    Title 12, Banks and Banking.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 724                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 3 - HAWAII

-HEAD-
    Sec. 724. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 724. Repealed. Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649, title II, Sec. 205, 68
      Stat. 622.
      Section, acts Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(b), 63 Stat. 58; June
    30, 1953, ch. 170, Sec. 25(b), 67 Stat. 128, related to purchase of
    insured mortgage loans by Federal National Mortgage Association,
    with respect to property in Hawaii.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO                              02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO

-HEAD-
                          CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO                      


-MISC1-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 
    Sec.                                                     
    731.        Territory included under name Puerto Rico.            
    731a.       Change of name; Puerto Rico.                          
    731b.       Organization of a government pursuant to a
                 constitution.                                        
    731c.       Submission of sections 731b to 731e of this title to
                 people of Puerto Rico for referendum; convening of
                 constitutional convention; requisites of
                 constitution.                                        
    731d.       Ratification of constitution by Congress.             
    731e.       Chapter continued in force and effect.                
    732.        Repealed.                                             
    733.        Citizens; former Spanish subjects and children; body
                 politic; name.                                       
    733a.       Citizens; residence in island of citizens of United
                 States.                                              
    733a-1, 733b. Repealed or Omitted.                                
    734.        United States laws extended to Puerto Rico; internal
                 revenue receipts covered into treasury.              
    734a.       Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue
                 laws to Puerto Rico.                                 
    735.        Repealed.                                             
    736.        Puerto Rican law modified.                            
    737.        Privileges and immunities.                            
    738.        Free interchange of merchandise with United States.   
    739.        Duties on foreign imports; books and pamphlets in
                 English language.                                    
    740.        Duties and taxes to constitute fund for benefit of
                 Puerto Rico; ports of entry.                         
    741.        Export duties, taxes, etc.; bonds to anticipate
                 revenues.                                            
    741a.       Internal-revenue taxes; levy and collection;
                 discrimination.                                      
    742.        Acknowledgment of deeds.                              
    743.        Repealed.                                             
    744.        Coasting trade laws.                                  
    745.        Tax exempt bonds.                                     
    745a.       Public improvement bonds sold to United States or
                 agency thereof excluded from public indebtedness.    
    745b.       Refunding bonds excluded temporarily in computing
                 indebtedness.                                        
    746.        Public lands and buildings; reservations; rights prior
                 to July 1, 1902.                                     
    747.        Public property transferred; "control" defined.       
    748.        Conveyance by President to people of lands, buildings,
                 etc.                                                 
    749.        Harbors and navigable waters transferred; definitions.
    750.        Repealed.                                             
    751.        Interstate commerce and certain other laws
                 inapplicable to Puerto Rico.                         
    752.        Corporate real estate holdings.                       
    753 to 755. Repealed or Omitted.                                  

          SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS      
    771 to 793b. Repealed.                                            
    794.        Official reports.                                     
    795.        Government expenses payable out of revenues.          
    796 to 799. Repealed.                                             

                     SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                 
    811 to 820. Repealed.                                             
    821.        Legislative power.                                    
    822 to 844. Repealed or Omitted.                                  
    845.        Income tax laws; modification or repeal by
                 legislature.                                         

                       SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                   
    861 to 863. Repealed or Omitted.                                  
    864.        Appeals, certiorari, removal of causes, etc.; use of
                 English language.                                    
    865 to 867. Repealed or Omitted.                                  
    868.        Fees part of United States revenues.                  
    869.        Fees payable by United States out of revenue of Puerto
                 Rico.                                                
    870, 871.   Repealed or Omitted.                                  
    872.        Habeas corpus; mandamus; suit to restrain assessment
                 or collection of taxes.                              
    873, 873a. Repealed.                                              
    874.        Judicial process; officials to be citizens of United
                 States; oath.                                        
    875, 876.   Repealed.                                             

                   SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER               
    891.        Resident Commissioner; election.                      
    892.        Qualifications of Commissioner; appointment to fill
                 vacancy.                                             
    893.        Salary of Commissioner; allowances; franking
                 privilege.                                           
    894.        Salary and traveling expenses; payment.               

      SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  
    910.        Slum clearance and urban redevelopment and renewal
                 projects; powers of government.                      
    910a.       Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by
                 government and municipalities.                       
    910b.       Ratification of prior acts.                           

       SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
                           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING
    911.        Legislative authorization to create authorities.      
    912.        Authority to appoint commissioners; powers of
                 authorities.                                         
    913.        Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by
                 municipalities.                                      
    914.        Issuance of bonds and obligations.                    
    915.        Bonds as public debt.                                 
    916.        Ratification of previous legislation.                 

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731. Territory included under name Puerto Rico

-STATUTE-
      The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the island of
    Puerto Rico and to the adjacent islands belonging to the United
    States and waters of those islands; and the name Puerto Rico, as
    used in this chapter, shall be held to include not only the island
    of that name, but all the adjacent islands as aforesaid.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 951; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended,
    known as the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly
    known as the Jones Act, which is classified principally to this
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out below and Tables.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat. 77, which is popularly known as
    the "Foraker Act" and also as the "Puerto Rico Civil Code".
      Section 1 of act Apr. 12, 1900, was similar to this section,
    except that it described the adjacent islands and waters of those
    islands as those lying east of the seventy-fourth meridian of
    longitude west of Greenwich, which were ceded to the United States
    by the Government of Spain by the treaty of Dec. 10, 1898, 30 Stat.
    1754.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-MISC2-
                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Act July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 4, 64 Stat. 319, provided, in
    part, that the act of Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951 [enacting
    this chapter, section 1019 of this title, section 46 of Title 2,
    The Congress, and section 358 of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality,
    and amending sections 325, 327, and 328 of former Title 39, Postal
    Service], may be cited as the "Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act".
    The act of Mar. 2, 1917, is also popularly known as the "Jones
    Act".

     UNITED STATES-PUERTO RICO COMMISSION ON THE STATUS OF PUERTO RICO 
      Pub. L. 88-271, Feb. 20, 1964, 78 Stat. 17, as amended by Pub. L.
    89-84, July 24, 1965, 79 Stat. 261, established a United States-
    Puerto Rico Commission on the Status of Puerto Rico to study all
    factors, including but not limited to applicable laws, treaties,
    constitutions, and agreements having a bearing on the relationship
    between the United States and Puerto Rico. The Commission was
    required to render its report to the President of the United
    States, the Congress of the United States, the Governor of Puerto
    Rico, and the Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico not later than
    Sept. 30, 1966.

                       ADMINISTRATION OF GOVERNMENT                   
      The administration of the Government of Puerto Rico was
    transferred from the Bureau of Insular Affairs to the Office of
    Territories (formerly the Division of Territories and Island
    Possessions and now the Office of Territorial Affairs), in the
    Department of the Interior by Executive Order No. 6726, eff. May
    29, 1934, eff. Mar. 2, 1935. For present government of the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, see section 731d of this title.


-EXEC-
    EX. ORD. NO. 13183. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDENT'S TASK FORCE ON
                           PUERTO RICO'S STATUS
      Ex. Ord. No. 13183, Dec. 23, 2000, 65 F.R. 82889, as amended by
    Ex. Ord. No. 13209, Apr. 30, 2001, 66 F.R. 22105; Ex. Ord. No.
    13319, Dec. 3, 2003, 68 F.R. 68233; Ex. Ord. No. 13517, Sec. 1,
    Oct. 30, 2009, 74 F.R. 57239, provided:
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
    and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered
    as follows:
      Section 1. Policy. It is the policy of the executive branch of
    the Government of the United States of America to help answer the
    questions that the people of Puerto Rico have asked for years
    regarding the options for the islands' future status and the
    process for realizing an option. Further, it is our policy to
    consider and develop positions on proposals, without preference
    among the options, for the Commonwealth's future status; to discuss
    such proposals with representatives of the people of Puerto Rico
    and the Congress; to work with leaders of the Commonwealth and the
    Congress to clarify the options to enable Puerto Ricans to
    determine their preference among options for the islands' future
    status that are not incompatible with the Constitution and basic
    laws and policies of the United States; and to implement such an
    option if chosen by a majority, including helping Puerto Ricans
    obtain a governing arrangement under which they would vote for
    national government officials, if they choose such a status. It is
    also the policy of the executive branch to improve the treatment of
    Puerto Rico in Federal programs and to promote job creation,
    education, health care, clean energy, and economic development on
    the islands.
      Sec. 2. The President's Task Force on Puerto Rico's Status. There
    is established a task force to be known as "The President's Task
    Force on Puerto Rico's Status" (Task Force). It shall be composed
    of designees of each member of the President's Cabinet and the
    Deputy Assistant to the President and Director for
    Intergovernmental Affairs. The Task Force shall be co-chaired by
    the Attorney General's designee and the Deputy Assistant to the
    President and Director for Intergovernmental Affairs.
      Sec. 3. Functions. The Task Force shall seek to implement the
    policy set forth in section 1 of this order. The Task Force shall
    ensure official attention to and facilitate action on matters
    related to proposals for Puerto Rico's status and provide advice
    and recommendations on such matters to the President and the
    Congress. The Task Force shall also identify and promote existing
    Federal initiatives that benefit Puerto Rico; provide advice and
    recommendations to the President and the Congress on the treatment
    of Puerto Rico in Federal programs; and provide advice and
    recommendations to the President and the Congress on policies and
    initiatives that promote job creation, education, health care,
    clean energy, and economic development on the islands.
      Sec. 4. Report. The Task Force shall submit to the President a
    report on the actions it has taken to perform the functions set
    forth in section 3 no later than 1 year from the date of this
    order. The Task Force shall also report to the President, as
    appropriate, on other matters relating to the Task Force's
    responsibilities under this order.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731a. Change of name; Puerto Rico

-STATUTE-
      From and after May 17, 1932, the island designated "Porto Rico"
    in the Act entitled "An Act to provide a civil government for Porto
    Rico, and for other purposes," approved March 2, 1917, as amended,
    shall be known and designated as "Puerto Rico." All laws,
    regulations, and public documents and records of the United States
    in which such island is designated or referred to under the name of
    "Porto Rico" shall be held to refer to such island under and by the
    name of "Puerto Rico."

-SOURCE-
    (May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Act approved March 2, 1917, as amended, referred to in text, is
    act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended, known as the
    Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly known as the
    Jones Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 731 of this title and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731b                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731b. Organization of a government pursuant to a constitution

-STATUTE-
      Fully recognizing the principle of government by consent,
    sections 731b to 731e of this title are now adopted in the nature
    of a compact so that the people of Puerto Rico may organize a
    government pursuant to a constitution of their own adoption.

-SOURCE-
    (July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 1, 64 Stat. 319.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                  REPEALS                              
      Section 6 of act July 3, 1950 provided that: "All laws or parts
    of laws inconsistent with this Act [enacting sections 731b to 731e
    of this title] are hereby repealed."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731c                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731c. Submission of sections 731b to 731e of this title to
      people of Puerto Rico for referendum; convening of constitutional
      convention; requisites of constitution

-STATUTE-
      Sections 731b to 731e of this title shall be submitted to the
    qualified voters of Puerto Rico for acceptance or rejection through
    an island-wide referendum to be held in accordance with the laws of
    Puerto Rico. Upon the approval of said sections, by a majority of
    the voters participating in such referendum, the Legislature of
    Puerto Rico is authorized to call a constitutional convention to
    draft a constitution for the said island of Puerto Rico. The said
    constitution shall provide a republican form of government and
    shall include a bill of rights.

-SOURCE-
    (July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 2, 64 Stat. 319.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                         CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION                     
      A constitutional convention to draft a constitution for the
    island of Puerto Rico convened in San Juan on Sept. 17, 1951, and
    concluded its deliberations on Feb. 6, 1952.

                                REFERENDUM                            
      Act July 3, 1950, which enacted sections 731b to 731e of this
    title, was submitted to the qualified voters of Puerto Rico through
    an island-wide referendum held on June 4, 1951, and approved.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731d                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731d. Ratification of constitution by Congress

-STATUTE-
      Upon adoption of the constitution by the people of Puerto Rico,
    the President of the United States is authorized to transmit such
    constitution to the Congress of the United States if he finds that
    such constitution conforms with the applicable provisions of
    sections 731b to 731e of this title and of the Constitution of the
    United States.
      Upon approval by the Congress the constitution shall become
    effective in accordance with its terms.

-SOURCE-
    (July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 319.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
              CONSTITUTION OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF PUERTO RICO          
      Constitution of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico was approved by
    the Constitutional Convention of Puerto Rico on Feb. 6, 1952;
    ratified by the people of Puerto Rico on Mar. 3, 1952; amended and
    approved by Congress by Joint Res. July 3, 1952, ch. 567, 66 Stat.
    327; proclaimed by the Governor of Puerto Rico to be in force and
    effect on July 25, 1952.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 731e                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 731e. Chapter continued in force and effect

-STATUTE-
      This chapter is continued in force and effect.

-SOURCE-
    (July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 4, 64 Stat. 319.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "the Act
    entitled 'An Act to provide a civil government for Porto Rico, and
    for other purposes,' approved March 2, 1917, as amended", meaning
    act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended, known as the
    Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly known as the
    Jones Act, which is classified principally to this chapter. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 731 of this title and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 732                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 732. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 732. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 4, 39 Stat. 953; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, designated San Juan as the capital
    of Puerto Rico. Section 6 of act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat.
    79, formerly cited as a credit to this section, was not repealed by
    act July 3, 1950.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Section 5 of act July 3, 1950, provided that the repeal of this
    section and sections 735, 750, 753, 754, 771-793, 793b, 796-799,
    811-820, 822, 823, 824-844, 861, and 873 of this title and the
    amendment of sections 737 and 752 of this title were to be
    effective at such time as the Constitution of the Commonwealth of
    Puerto Rico became effective. Under section 731d of this title,
    that Constitution, upon approval by the Congress of the United
    States, "shall become effective in accordance with its terms".
    Congress, by act July 3, 1952, ch. 567, 66 Stat. 327, approved,
    with certain conditions, that Constitution; the approving act
    further provided that the Constitution, as so approved, "shall
    become effective when the Constitutional Convention of Puerto Rico
    shall have declared in a formal resolution its acceptance in the
    name of Puerto Rico of the conditions of approval herein contained,
    and when the Governor of Puerto Rico, being duly notified by the
    proper officials of the Constitutional Convention of Puerto Rico
    that such resolution of acceptance has been formally adopted, shall
    issue a proclamation to that effect". The Constitution was
    proclaimed by the Governor of Puerto Rico on July 25, 1952, and
    became effective on that date.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 733                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 733. Citizens; former Spanish subjects and children; body
      politic; name

-STATUTE-
      All inhabitants continuing to reside in Puerto Rico who were
    Spanish subjects on the 11th day of April 1899, and then resided in
    Puerto Rico, and their children born subsequent thereto, shall be
    deemed and held to be citizens of Puerto Rico, and as such entitled
    to the protection of the United States, except such as shall have
    elected to preserve their allegiance to the Crown of Spain on or
    before the 11th day of April 1900, in accordance with the
    provisions of the treaty of peace between the United States and
    Spain entered into on the 11th day of April 1899; and they,
    together with such citizens of the United States as may reside in
    Puerto Rico, shall constitute a body politic under the name of the
    People of Puerto Rico, with governmental powers as hereinafter
    conferred, and with power to sue and be sued as such.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 7, 31 Stat. 79; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 733a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 733a. Citizens; residence in island of citizens of United
      States

-STATUTE-
      All citizens of the United States who have resided or who shall
    after March 4, 1927, reside in the island for one year shall be
    citizens of Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 5a, as added Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503,
    Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 1418; amended May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat.
    158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 5a of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 733a-1                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 733a-1. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 733a-1. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, Sec.
      403(a)(14), 66 Stat. 279.
      Section, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 5b, as added June 25,
    1948, ch. 649, 62 Stat. 1015, related to nonapplication of section
    804(c) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 733b                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 733b. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Prior to the enactment of the Nationality Act of 1940, act Oct.
    14, 1940, ch. 876, 54 Stat. 1137, this section, act Mar. 2, 1917,
    ch. 145, Sec. 5b, as added June 27, 1934, ch. 845, 48 Stat. 1245,
    provided as follows: "All persons born in Puerto Rico on or after
    April 11, 1899 (whether before or after June 27, 1934) and not
    citizens, subjects, or nationals of any foreign power, are hereby
    declared to be citizens of the United States: Provided, That this
    section shall not be construed as depriving any person, native of
    Puerto Rico, of his or her American citizenship heretofore
    otherwise lawfully acquired by such person; or to extend such
    citizenship to persons who shall have renounced or lost it under
    the treaties and/or laws of the United States or who are now
    residing permanently abroad and are citizens or subjects of a
    foreign country: And provided further, That any woman, native of
    Puerto Rico and permanently residing therein, who, prior to March
    2, 1917, had lost her American nationality by reason of her
    marriage to an alien eligible to citizenship, or by reason of the
    loss of the United States citizenship by her husband, may be
    naturalized under the provisions of section 369 of title 8."
      The second proviso thereof was repealed by section 504 of the
    Nationality Act of 1940. Provisions relating to citizenship of
    persons born in Puerto Rico, are contained in section 1402 of Title
    8, Aliens and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 734                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 734. United States laws extended to Puerto Rico; internal
      revenue receipts covered into treasury

-STATUTE-
      The statutory laws of the United States not locally inapplicable,
    except as hereinbefore or hereinafter otherwise provided, shall
    have the same force and effect in Puerto Rico as in the United
    States, except the internal revenue laws other than those contained
    in the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 [22 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.] or the
    Philippine Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955 [22 U.S.C. 1371 et
    seq.]: Provided, however, That after May 1, 1946, all taxes
    collected under the internal revenue laws of the United States on
    articles produced in Puerto Rico and transported to the United
    States, or consumed in the island shall be covered into the
    treasury of Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 9, 39 Stat. 954; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 513, 60
    Stat. 158; Aug. 1, 1955, ch. 438, title III, Sec. 308, 69 Stat.
    427.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Philippine Trade Act of 1946, referred to in text, is act
    Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, 60 Stat. 141, as amended, which is
    classified principally to subchapters I to IV (Sec. 1251 et seq.)
    of chapter 15 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1354 of Title 22 and Tables.
      The Philippine Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955, referred to
    in text, is act Aug. 1, 1955, ch. 438, 69 Stat. 413, which is
    classified generally to subchapter IV-A (Sec. 1371 et seq.) of
    chapter 15 of Title 22. For complete classification of this Act to
    the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1373 of Title
    22 and Tables.
      The internal revenue laws of the United States, referred to in
    text, are classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 14, 31 Stat. 80, except that the words
    "which, in view of the provisions of section three, shall not have
    force and effect in Porto Rico" were contained in lieu of the
    proviso. As to section 3 of act Apr. 12, 1900, see section 738 of
    this title and notes thereunder.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1955 - Act Aug. 1, 1955, inserted "or the Philippine Trade
    Agreement Revision Act of 1955".
      1946 - Act Apr. 30, 1946, inserted "other than those contained in
    the Philippine Trade Act of 1946".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-MISC2-
                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1955 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act Aug. 1, 1955, effective Jan. 1, 1956, see
    section 301(b) of act Aug. 1, 1955, set out as an Effective Date
    note under section 1373 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and
    Intercourse.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1946 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act Apr. 30, 1946, effective on day after date of
    its enactment, Apr. 30, 1946, see section 512 of act Apr. 30, 1946,
    set out as an Effective Date note under section 1354 of Title 22,
    Foreign Relations and Intercourse.


-EXEC-
     EX. ORD. NO. 9909. EXEMPTING DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
     FOR PUERTO RICO AND THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE FROM MAKING REPORTS
                         REQUIRED BY THIS SECTION
      Ex. Ord. No. 9909, eff. Dec. 9, 1947, 12 F.R. 8291, provided:
      By virtue of the authority vested in me by section 49b(2) of the
    Organic Act of Puerto Rico, as amended by section 6 of the Act of
    August 5, 1947, Public Law 362, 80th Congress [section 793b of this
    title], it is hereby ordered that the District Court of the United
    States for Puerto Rico and the Department of Justice shall be
    exempt from making the reports to the Coordinator of Federal
    Agencies in Puerto Rico which are provided for in such section.
                                                         Harry S Truman.

         EX. ORD. NO. 10005. ESTABLISHMENT OF PRESIDENT'S ADVISORY
           COMMISSION ON RELATION OF FEDERAL LAWS TO PUERTO RICO
      Ex. Ord. No. 10005, eff. Oct. 5, 1948, 13 F.R. 5854, provided:
      WHEREAS section 9 of the Organic Act of Puerto Rico, 39 Stat. 954
    [this section], provides that "the statutory laws of the United
    States not locally inapplicable, except as hereinbefore or
    hereinafter otherwise provided, shall have the same force and
    effect in Puerto Rico as in the United States"; and
      WHEREAS section 49b(3) of the said Act, which was added by
    section 6 of the act of August 5, 1947, 61 Stat. 772 [section 793b
    of this title], provides that "the President of the United States
    may, from time to time, after hearing, promulgate Executive orders
    expressly excepting Puerto Rico from the application of any Federal
    law, not expressly declared by Congress to be applicable to Puerto
    Rico, which is contemplated by section 9 of this act [this section]
    is inapplicable by reason of local conditions":
      NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
    said Organic Act of Puerto Rico, and as President of the United
    States, it is ordered as follows:
      1. There is hereby created a commission to be known as the
    President's Advisory Commission on the Relation of Federal Laws to
    Puerto Rico, which shall be composed of nine members to be
    designated by the President and to serve without compensation.
      2. The Commission shall from time to time make recommendations to
    the President concerning the exercise of his power under section
    49b(3) of the Organic Act of Puerto Rico [section 793b of this
    title] to exempt Puerto Rico from the application of Federal laws.
    To that end, the Commission is authorized to examine into, and to
    hold hearings on, the inapplicability of Federal laws to Puerto
    Rico by reason of local conditions.
      3. All executive departments and agencies of the Federal
    Government are authorized and directed to cooperate with the
    Commission in its work and to furnish the Commission such
    information as the Commission may require in the performance of its
    duties.
      4. The Commission shall continue to exist until the President
    terminates its existence by Executive order.
                                                         Harry S Truman.

            ADMINISTRATIVE TREATMENT OF PUERTO RICO AS A STATE        
      Memorandum of President of the United States, Nov. 30, 1992, 57
    F.R. 57093, provided:
      Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
      Puerto Rico is a self-governing territory of the United States
    whose residents have been United States citizens since 1917 and
    have fought valorously in five wars in the defense of our Nation
    and the liberty of others.
      On July 25, 1952, as a consequence of steps taken by both the
    United States Government and the people of Puerto Rico voting in a
    referendum, a new constitution was promulgated establishing the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. The Commonwealth structure provides
    for self-government in respect of internal affairs and
    administration, subject to relevant portions of the Constitution
    and the laws of the United States. As long as Puerto Rico is a
    territory, however, the will of its people regarding their
    political status should be ascertained periodically by means of a
    general right of referendum or specific referenda sponsored either
    by the United States Government or the Legislature of Puerto Rico.
      Because Puerto Rico's degree of constitutional self-government,
    population, and size set it apart from other areas also subject to
    Federal jurisdiction under Article IV, section 3, clause 2 of the
    Constitution, I hereby direct all Federal departments, agencies,
    and officials, to the extent consistent with the Constitution and
    the laws of the United States, henceforward to treat Puerto Rico
    administratively as if it were a State, except insofar as doing so
    with respect to an existing Federal program or activity would
    increase or decrease Federal receipts or expenditures, or would
    seriously disrupt the operation of such program or activity. With
    respect to a Federal program or activity for which no fiscal
    baseline has been established, this memorandum shall not be
    construed to require that such program or activity be conducted in
    a way that increases or decreases Federal receipts or expenditures
    relative to the level that would obtain if Puerto Rico were treated
    other than as a State.
      If any matters arise involving the fundamentals of Puerto Rico's
    status, they shall be referred to the Office of the President.
      This guidance shall remain in effect until Federal legislation is
    enacted altering the current status of Puerto Rico in accordance
    with the freely expressed wishes of the people of Puerto Rico.
      The memorandum for the heads of executive departments and
    agencies on this subject, issued July 25, 1961 [26 F.R. 6695], is
    hereby rescinded.
      This memorandum shall be published in the Federal Register.
                                                            George Bush.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 734a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 734a. Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue
      laws to Puerto Rico

-STATUTE-
      Title III of the National Prohibition Act, as amended, and all
    provisions of the internal revenue laws relating to the enforcement
    thereof, are extended to and made applicable to Puerto Rico from
    and after August 27, 1935. The Insular Government shall advance to
    the Treasury of the United States such funds as may be required
    from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury for the purpose
    of defraying all expenses incurred by the Treasury Department in
    connection with the enforcement in Puerto Rico of the said Title
    III and regulations promulgated thereunder. The funds so advanced
    shall be deposited in a separate trust fund in the Treasury of the
    United States and shall be available to the Treasury Department for
    the purposes of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (June 26, 1936, ch. 830, title III, Sec. 329(c), 49 Stat. 1957.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The National Prohibition Act, as amended, referred to in text, is
    act Oct. 28, 1919, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 305, as amended. Title III of
    such Act was classified principally to chapter 3 (Sec. 71 et seq.)
    of Title 27, Intoxicating Liquors, and was omitted from the Code in
    view of the incorporation of such provisions in the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1939, and subsequently into the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Provisions similar to those comprising this section relating to
    the Virgin Islands are classified to section 1402 of this title.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 735                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 735. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 735. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 57, 39 Stat. 968; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, continued certain Puerto Rican
    Laws in force and authorized the legislative authority to modify or
    repeal laws. Section 15 of act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat. 80,
    formerly cited as a credit to this section, was not repealed by act
    July 3, 1950.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective July 25, 1952, see Effective Date of Repeal note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 736                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 736. Puerto Rican law modified

-STATUTE-
      So much of the law which was in force at the time of cession,
    April 11th, 1899, forbidding the marriage of priests, ministers, or
    followers of any faith because of vows they may have taken, being
    paragraph 4, article 83, chapter 3, civil code, and which was
    continued by the order of the secretary of justice of Puerto Rico,
    dated March 17, 1899, and promulgated by Major General Guy V.
    Henry, United States Volunteers, is repealed and annulled, and all
    persons lawfully married in Puerto Rico shall have all the rights
    and remedies conferred by law upon parties to either civil or
    religious marriages. Paragraph 1, article 105, section 4, divorce,
    civil code, and paragraph 2, section 19, of the order of the
    minister of justice of Puerto Rico, dated March 17, 1899, and
    promulgated by Major General Guy V. Henry, United States
    Volunteers, are so amended as to read: "Adultery on the part of
    either the husband or the wife."

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 8, 31 Stat. 79; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 737                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 737. Privileges and immunities

-STATUTE-
      The rights, privileges, and immunities of citizens of the United
    States shall be respected in Puerto Rico to the same extent as
    though Puerto Rico were a State of the Union and subject to the
    provisions of paragraph 1 of section 2 of article IV of the
    Constitution of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 2, 39 Stat. 951; Feb. 3, 1921, ch. 34,
    Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 1096; Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 37, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 361;
    Aug. 5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 7, 61 Stat. 772; July 3, 1950, ch. 446,
    Sec. 5(1), 64 Stat. 320.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1950 - Act July 3, 1950, repealed all of section relating to bill
    of rights and restrictions except last paragraph.
      1947 - Act Aug. 5, 1947, inserted privileges and immunities
    provisions.
      1934 - Act Mar. 2, 1934, repealed so much of former provisions of
    twentieth paragraph of this section making it unlawful to import,
    manufacture, sell or give away, or to expose for sale or gift any
    intoxicating liquors. The penalty formerly contained in such
    paragraph, related only to violation of such provisions.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1950 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act July 3, 1950, effective July 25, 1952, the date
    the Constitution of Puerto Rico became effective, see Effective
    Date of Repeal note set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 738                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 738. Free interchange of merchandise with United States

-STATUTE-
      All merchandise and articles coming into the United States from
    Puerto Rico and coming into Puerto Rico from the United States
    shall be entered at the several ports of entry free of duty and in
    no event shall any tariff duties be collected on said merchandise
    or articles.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 3, 31 Stat. 77; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Act Apr. 12, 1900, Sec. 3, as originally enacted, imposed tariff
    duties, amounting to 15 per centum of the duties on like articles
    imported from foreign countries, on all articles of merchandise
    coming into the United States from Porto Rico and vice versa.
    Merchandise and articles except coffee, not dutiable under United
    States' tariff laws, and merchandise or articles entered in Porto
    Rico free of duty under orders theretofore made by the Secretary of
    War, were to be admitted from the United States free of duty, all
    laws or parts of laws to the contrary, notwithstanding. However,
    all of the aforesaid tariff duties were to cease, and the
    provisions in the text were to become operative, whenever the local
    legislative assembly should put into operation a system of local
    taxation, and the President should make proclamation thereof. In no
    event were those duties to be collected after March 1, 1902. In
    accordance with the aforesaid provision President McKinley issued
    his proclamation July 25, 1901, 32 Stat. 1983.
      Section 3 also contained provisions relating to a tax on
    merchandise of Porto Rican manufacture equal to the internal-
    revenue tax imposed in the United States, and on merchandise of
    United States manufacture coming into Porto Rico, a tax equal to
    the internal-revenue tax imposed in Porto Rico upon like articles
    of Porto Rican manufacture which are contained in sections 7652 and
    7653 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 739                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 739. Duties on foreign imports; books and pamphlets in English
      language

-STATUTE-
      The same tariffs, customs, and duties shall be levied, collected,
    and paid upon all articles imported into Puerto Rico from ports
    other than those of the United States which are required by law to
    be collected upon articles imported into the United States from
    foreign countries. All books and pamphlets printed in the English
    language shall be admitted into Puerto Rico free of duty when
    imported from the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 77; Aug. 5, 1909, ch. 6,
    Sec. 1, 36 Stat. 71, 74; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1909 - Act Aug. 5, 1909, placed coffee in the bean or ground,
    imported into Puerto Rico, formerly subject to a duty of 5 cents,
    on the duty free list.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 740                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 740. Duties and taxes to constitute fund for benefit of Puerto
      Rico; ports of entry

-STATUTE-
      The duties and taxes collected in Puerto Rico in pursuance of the
    provisions of this Act, less the cost of collecting the same, and
    the gross amount of all collections of duties and taxes in the
    United States upon articles of merchandise coming from Puerto Rico,
    shall be paid into the treasury of Puerto Rico to be expended as
    required by law for the government and benefit thereof, and the
    Secretary of the Treasury shall designate the several ports and
    subports of entry in Puerto Rico and shall make such rules and
    regulations and appoint such agents as may be necessary to collect
    the duties and taxes authorized to be levied, collected, and paid
    in Puerto Rico by the provisions of this Act, and he shall fix the
    compensation and provide for the payment thereof of all such
    officers, agents, and assistants as he may find it necessary to
    employ to carry out the provisions of law.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 4, 31 Stat. 78; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, means act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191,
    31 Stat. 77, as amended, popularly known as the Foraker Act, which,
    insofar as is classified to the Code, enacted sections 733, 736,
    738 to 740, 743, 744, 755, 864, and 866 of this title and amended
    sections 1 and 11 of former Title 11, Bankruptcy. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Additional provisions of act Apr. 12, 1900, Sec. 4, directing the
    payment of duties and taxes into a separate fund in the Treasury of
    the United States until the organization of a local civil
    government, have been omitted.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      All offices of collector of customs, comptroller of customs,
    surveyor of customs, and appraiser of merchandise of Bureau of
    Customs of Department of the Treasury to which appointments were
    required to be made by President with advice and consent of Senate
    ordered abolished, with such offices to be terminated not later
    than December 31, 1966, by Reorg. Plan No. 1, of 1965, eff. May 25,
    1965, 30 F.R. 7035, 79 Stat. 1317, set out in the Appendix to Title
    5, Government Organization and Employees. All functions of offices
    eliminated were already vested in Secretary of the Treasury by
    Reorg. Plan No. 26 of 1950, eff. July 31, 1950, 15 F.R. 4935, 64
    Stat. 1280, set out in the Appendix to Title 5.


-MISC1-
             EXPENDITURES FOR GOVERNMENTAL AND PUBLIC PURPOSES         
      The amount of customs revenue received by the United States on
    importations from Puerto Rico since its evacuation by the Spanish
    forces together with all that should thereafter be collected under
    the existing law were placed at the disposal of the President to be
    used for governmental and public purposes in Puerto Rico, by act
    Mar. 24, 1900, ch. 91, 31 Stat. 51.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 741                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 741. Export duties, taxes, etc.; bonds to anticipate revenues

-STATUTE-
      No export duties shall be levied or collected on exports from
    Puerto Rico, but taxes and assessments on property, income taxes,
    internal revenue, and license fees, and royalties for franchises,
    privileges, and concessions may be imposed for the purposes of the
    insular and municipal governments, respectively, as may be provided
    and defined by the Legislature of Puerto Rico; and when necessary
    to anticipate taxes and revenues, bonds and other obligations may
    be issued by Puerto Rico or any municipal government therein as may
    be provided by law, and to protect the public credit.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 953; Feb. 3, 1921, ch. 34,
    Sec. 2, 41 Stat. 1096; Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 1, 44 Stat.
    1418; Aug. 26, 1937, ch. 831, 50 Stat. 843.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of first part of section 3 of act Mar. 2,
    1917, down to the proviso clause. The remainder of section 3 is
    classified to sections 741a and 745 of this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 38, 31 Stat. 86.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1937 - Act Aug. 26, 1937, reenacted section without substantive
    change.
      1927 - Act Mar. 4, 1927, inserted imposition of income taxes.
      1921 - Act Feb. 3, 1921, reenacted section without change.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 741a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 741a. Internal-revenue taxes; levy and collection;
      discrimination

-STATUTE-
      The internal-revenue taxes levied by the Legislature of Puerto
    Rico in pursuance of the authority granted by this chapter on
    articles, goods, wares, or merchandise may be levied and collected
    as such legislature may direct, on the articles subject to said
    tax, as soon as the same are manufactured, sold, used, or brought
    into the island: Provided, That no discrimination be made between
    the articles imported from the United States or foreign countries
    and similar articles produced or manufactured in Puerto Rico. The
    officials of the Customs and Postal Services of the United States
    are directed to assist the appropriate officials of the Puerto
    Rican government in the collection of these taxes.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 953; Mar. 4, 1927, ch.
    503, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 1418; Aug. 26, 1937, ch. 831, 50 Stat. 844.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended,
    known as the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly
    known as the Jones Act, which is classified principally to the
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 731 of this title and
    Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of last part of section 3 of act Mar. 2,
    1917, as added by act Mar. 4, 1927. The first two parts are
    classified to sections 741 and 745 of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1937 - Act Aug. 26, 1937, reenacted section without substantive
    change.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 742                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 742. Acknowledgment of deeds

-STATUTE-
      Deeds and other instruments affecting land situate in the
    District of Columbia, or any other territory or possession of the
    United States, may be acknowledged in Puerto Rico before any notary
    public appointed therein by proper authority, or any officer
    therein who has ex officio the powers of a notary public. The
    certificate by such notary shall be accompanied by the certificate
    of the executive secretary of Puerto Rico to the effect that the
    notary taking such acknowledgment is in fact such notarial officer.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 54, 39 Stat. 968; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Mar. 22, 1902, ch. 273, 32 Stat. 88, except that that act required
    the certificate of the attorney general of Puerto Rico, rather than
    of the executive secretary of Puerto Rico as required by this
    section.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 743                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 743. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 743. Repealed. July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title XI, Sec. 1113, 58
      Stat. 714.
      Section, acts Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 10, 31 Stat. 80; Aug.
    14, 1912, ch. 288, 37 Stat. 309; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat.
    158, provided for quarantine stations in Puerto Rico. See section
    267 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.

                       RENUMBERING OF REPEALING ACT                   
      Section 611 of act July 1, 1944, which repealed this section, was
    renumbered Sec. 711 by act Aug. 13, 1946, ch. 958, Sec. 5, 60 Stat.
    1049, Sec. 713 by act Feb. 28, 1948, ch. 83, Sec. 9(b), 62 Stat.
    47, Sec. 813 by act July 30, 1956, ch. 779, Sec. 3(b), 70 Stat.
    720, Sec. 913 by Pub. L. 88-581, Sec. 4(b), Sept. 4, 1964, 78 Stat.
    919, Sec. 1013 by Pub. L. 89-239, Sec. 3(b), Oct. 6, 1965, 79 Stat.
    931, and Sec. 1113 by Pub. L. 91-572, Sec. 6(b), Dec. 24, 1970, 84
    Stat. 1506.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 744                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 744. Coasting trade laws

-STATUTE-
      The coasting trade between Puerto Rico and the United States
    shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of law
    applicable to such trade between any two great coasting districts
    of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 9, 31 Stat. 79; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Additional provisions of section 9 of act Apr. 12, 1900,
    authorizing the making of regulations for the nationalization of
    all vessels owned by inhabitants of Puerto Rico on April 11, 1889,
    and which continued to be so owned up to the date of that
    nationalization and for the admission of the same to all the
    benefits of the coasting trade of the United States, have been
    omitted.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 745                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 745. Tax exempt bonds

-STATUTE-
      All bonds issued by the Government of Puerto Rico, or by its
    authority, shall be exempt from taxation by the Government of the
    United States, or by the Government of Puerto Rico or of any
    political or municipal subdivision thereof, or by any State,
    Territory, or possession, or by any county, municipality, or other
    municipal subdivision of any State, Territory, or possession of the
    United States, or by the District of Columbia.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 953; Feb. 3, 1921, ch. 34,
    Sec. 2, 41 Stat. 1096; Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 1, 44 Stat.
    1418; Aug. 26, 1937, ch. 831, 50 Stat. 844; Aug. 17, 1950, ch. 731,
    64 Stat. 458; Pub. L. 87-121, Sec. 1, Aug. 3, 1961, 75 Stat. 245.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of second part of section 3 of act Mar. 2,
    1917, commencing with proviso clause. The first and last parts of
    section 3 are classified to sections 741 and 741a, respectively, of
    this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 38, 31 Stat. 86.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1961 - Pub. L. 87-121 struck out "no public indebtedness of
    Puerto Rico and the municipalities of San Juan, Ponce, Arecibo, Rio
    Pledras, and Mayaguez shall be allowed in excess of 10 per centum
    of the aggregate tax valuation of its property, and no public
    indebtedness of any other subdivision or municipality of Puerto
    Rico shall hereafter be allowed in excess of 5 per centum of the
    aggregate tax valuation of the property in any such subdivision or
    municipality," before "All bonds issued" and also struck out "In
    computing the indebtedness of the people of Puerto Rico, municipal
    bonds for the payment of interest and principal of which the good
    faith of the people of Puerto Rico has heretofore been pledged and
    bonds issued by the people of Puerto Rico secured by bonds to an
    equivalent amount of bonds of municipal corporations or school
    boards of Puerto Rico shall not be counted but all bonds hereafter
    issued by any municipality or subdivision within the 5 per centum
    hereby authorized for which the good faith of the people of Puerto
    Rico is pledged shall be counted" after "District of Columbia".
      1950 - Act Aug. 17, 1950, made section applicable to
    municipalities of Arecibo and Rio Piedras.
      1937 - Act Aug. 26, 1937, made section applicable to municipality
    of Mayaguez and substituted "August 26, 1937" for "March 4, 1927"
    wherever appearing.
      1927 - Act Mar. 4, 1927, made section applicable to
    municipalities of San Juan and Ponce, limited public indebtedness
    of other subdivisions or municipalities of Puerto Rico to 5 per
    centum, and inserted in last sentence two clauses, the first
    relating to the non-inclusion of municipal bonds for the payment of
    interest and principal, and the second reading "but all bonds after
    August 26, 1937, issued by any municipality or subdivision within
    the 5 per centum authorized for which the good faith of the people
    of Porto Rico is pledged shall be counted."
      1921 - Act Feb. 3, 1921, increased allowable public indebtedness
    from 7 to 10 per centum of aggregate tax valuation of property.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1961 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 87-121 provided that: "Section 1 of this Act
    [amending this section] shall take effect upon a majority of the
    qualified electors of Puerto Rico having voted in a referendum
    pursuant to section 1 of article VII of the constitution of the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, to include provisions in the
    Commonwealth constitution, in lieu of the provisions of section 3
    of the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act [this section] specified
    herein, limiting the debt-incurring capacity of the Commonwealth
    and of its municipalities (as proposed in the concurrent resolution
    of the legislative assembly of the Commonwealth)."
      [Referendum held Dec. 10, 1961, and debt limitation amendment to
    Article VI, Sec. 2, of Constitution of Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
    ratified by a majority of voters.]

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 745a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 745a. Public improvement bonds sold to United States or agency
      thereof excluded from public indebtedness

-STATUTE-
      Bonds or other obligations of Puerto Rico or any municipal
    government therein, payable solely from revenues derived from any
    public improvement or undertaking (which revenues may include
    transfers by agreement or otherwise from the regular funds of the
    issuer in respect of the use by it of the facilities afforded by
    such improvement or undertaking), and issued and sold to the United
    States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof, shall
    not be considered public indebtedness of the issuer within the
    meaning of section 745 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 13, 1935, ch. 516, 49 Stat. 611.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 745b                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 745b. Refunding bonds excluded temporarily in computing
      indebtedness

-STATUTE-
      Any bonds or other obligations of Puerto Rico issued after August
    3, 1935, for the purpose of retiring previously outstanding bonds
    or obligations shall not be included in computing the public
    indebtedness of Puerto Rico under section 745 of this title, until
    six months after their issue.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 3, 1935, ch. 435, 49 Stat. 516.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 746                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 746. Public lands and buildings; reservations; rights prior to
      July 1, 1902

-STATUTE-
      All public lands and buildings, not including harbor areas and
    navigable streams and bodies of water and the submerged lands
    underlying the same, owned by the United States in the island of
    Puerto Rico and not reserved by the President of the United States
    prior to July 1, 1903, pursuant to authority vested in him by law,
    are granted to the government of Puerto Rico, to be held or
    disposed of for the use and benefit of the people of said island.
    Said grant is upon the express condition that the government of
    Puerto Rico, by proper authority, release to the United States any
    interest or claim it may have in or upon the lands or buildings
    reserved by the President as mentioned herein. Nothing herein
    contained shall be so construed as to affect any legal or equitable
    rights acquired by the government of Puerto Rico or by any other
    party, under any contract, lease, or license made by the United
    States authorities prior to the 1st day of May 1900.

-SOURCE-
    (July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, Sec. 1, 32 Stat. 731; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                LAW LIBRARY                            
      Section 2 of act July 1, 1902, made an appropriation for the
    purchase of a law library for the use of the United States District
    Court for Puerto Rico.

                EXPENSES AND TERM OF RESIDENT COMMISSIONER            
      Section 3 of act July 1, 1902, related to allowance of traveling
    expenses in addition to salary to the resident commissioner from
    Puerto Rico, and to the commencement of his term.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 747                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 747. Public property transferred; "control" defined

-STATUTE-
      All property which may have been acquired in Puerto Rico by the
    United States under the cession of Spain in the treaty of peace
    entered into on the 10th day of December 1898, in any public
    bridges, road houses, water powers, highways, unnavigable streams
    and the beds thereof, subterranean waters, mines or minerals under
    the surface of private lands, all property which at the time of the
    cession belonged, under the laws of Spain then in force, to the
    various harbor works boards of Puerto Rico, all the harbor shores,
    docks, slips, reclaimed lands, and all public lands and buildings
    not reserved by the United States for public purposes prior to
    March 2, 1917, is placed under the control of the government of
    Puerto Rico, to be administered for the benefit of the people of
    Puerto Rico; and the Legislature of Puerto Rico shall have
    authority, subject to the limitations imposed upon all its acts, to
    legislate with respect to all matters, as it may deem advisable.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, as used in this section
    "control" includes all right, title, and interest in and to and
    jurisdiction and authority over the aforesaid property and includes
    proprietary rights of ownership, and the rights of management,
    administration, leasing, use, and development of such property.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 954; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; Pub. L. 96-205, title VI, Sec. 606(b), Mar. 12,
    1980, 94 Stat. 91.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of that part of section 7 of act Mar. 2,
    1917, preceding the proviso clause. The remainder of section 7 is
    classified to section 748 of this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 13, 31 Stat. 80.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-205 inserted provisions defining "control".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 748                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 748. Conveyance by President to people of lands, buildings,
      etc.

-STATUTE-
      The President may, from time to time, in his discretion, convey
    to the people of Puerto Rico, such lands, buildings, or interests
    in lands, or other property now owned by the United States, and
    within the territorial limits of Puerto Rico as in his opinion are
    no longer needed for purposes of the United States. And he may from
    time to time accept by legislative grant from Puerto Rico any
    lands, buildings, or other interests or property which may be
    needed for public purposes by the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 954; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of proviso clause of section 7 of act Mar.
    2, 1917. The text preceding the proviso clause of section 7 is
    classified to section 747 of this title.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-TRANS-
                          DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS                      
      For delegation to Secretary of the Interior of authority vested
    in President by this section, see Ex. Ord. No. 10250, eff. June 5,
    1951, 16 F.R. 5385, set out under section 301 of Title 3, The
    President.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 749                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 749. Harbors and navigable waters transferred; definitions

-STATUTE-
      The harbor areas and navigable streams and bodies of water and
    submerged lands underlying the same in and around the island of
    Puerto Rico and the adjacent islands and waters, owned by the
    United States on March 2, 1917, and not reserved by the United
    States for public purposes, are placed under the control of the
    government of Puerto Rico, to be administered in the same manner
    and subject to the same limitations as the property enumerated in
    sections 747 and 748 of this title. All laws of the United States
    for the protection and improvement of the navigable waters of the
    United States and the preservation of the interests of navigation
    and commerce, except so far as the same may be locally
    inapplicable, shall apply to said island and waters and to its
    adjacent islands and waters. Nothing in this chapter contained
    shall be construed so as to affect or impair in any manner the
    terms or conditions of any authorizations, permits, or other powers
    lawfully granted or exercised or in respect of said waters and
    submerged lands in and surrounding said island and its adjacent
    islands by the Secretary of the Army or other authorized officer or
    agent of the United States prior to March 2, 1917. Notwithstanding
    any other provision of law, as used in this section (1) "submerged
    lands underlying navigable bodies of water" include lands
    permanently or periodically covered by tidal waters up to but not
    above the line of mean high tide, all lands underlying the
    navigable bodies of water in and around the island of Puerto Rico
    and the adjacent islands, and all artificially made, filled in, or
    reclaimed lands which formerly were lands beneath navigable bodies
    of water; (2) "navigable bodies of water and submerged lands
    underlying the same in and around the island of Puerto Rico and the
    adjacent islands and waters" extend from the coastline of the
    island of Puerto Rico and the adjacent islands as heretofore or
    hereafter modified by accretion, erosion, or reliction, seaward to
    a distance of three marine leagues; (3) "control" includes all
    right, title, and interest in and to and jurisdiction and authority
    over the submerged lands underlying the harbor areas and navigable
    streams and bodies of water in and around the island of Puerto Rico
    and the adjacent islands and waters, and the natural resources
    underlying such submerged lands and waters, and includes
    proprietary rights of ownership, and the rights of management,
    administration, leasing, use, and development of such natural
    resources and submerged lands beneath such waters.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 8, 39 Stat. 954; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, Sec. 205(a),
    61 Stat. 501; Pub. L. 96-205, title VI, Sec. 606(a), Mar. 12, 1980,
    94 Stat. 91.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended,
    known as the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly
    known as the Jones Act, which is classified principally to this
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 731 of this title and
    Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      A further provision of section 8 of act Mar. 2, 1917, repealing
    act June 11, 1906, ch. 3075, 34 Stat. 234, and all other laws or
    parts of laws in conflict herewith was omitted.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-205 inserted provisions defining terms used in
    this section.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.
      Department of War designated Department of the Army and title of
    Secretary of War changed to Secretary of the Army by section 205(a)
    of act July 26, 1947, ch. 343, title II, 61 Stat. 501. Section
    205(a) of act July 26, 1947, was repealed by section 53 of act Aug.
    10, 1956, ch. 1041, 70A Stat. 641. Section 1 of act Aug. 10, 1956,
    enacted "Title 10, Armed Forces" which in sections 3010 to 3013
    continued Department of the Army under administrative supervision
    of Secretary of the Army.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 750                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 750. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 750. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 38, 39 Stat. 964; Mar.
    4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 6, 44 Stat. 1420; June 24, 1948, ch. 610,
    Sec. 7, 62 Stat. 580, related to grants of franchises, public
    service commission, etc.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective July 25, 1952, see note set out under section
    732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 751                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 751. Interstate commerce and certain other laws inapplicable
      to Puerto Rico

-STATUTE-
      Subtitle IV of title 49, and the Safety Appliance Acts and the
    several amendments made or to be made thereto, shall not apply to
    Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 38, 39 Stat. 964; Mar. 4, 1927, ch.
    503, Sec. 6, 44 Stat. 1421; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Safety Appliance Acts, referred to in text, are acts Mar. 2,
    1893, ch. 196, 27 Stat. 531; Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 976, 32 Stat. 943;
    and Apr. 14, 1910, ch. 160, 36 Stat. 298, which were classified to
    sections 1 to 16 of Title 45, Railroads, and were repealed and
    reenacted in sections 20102, 20301 to 20304, 21302, and 21304 of
    Title 49, Transportation, by Pub. L. 103-272, Secs. 1(e), 7(b),
    July 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 863, 881, 892, 893, 1379, the first section
    of which enacted subtitles II, III, and V to X of Title 49. Section
    6 of act Apr. 14, 1910, which was classified to section 15 of Title
    45, was repealed and reenacted as section 501(b) of Title 49 by
    Pub. L. 97-449, Jan. 12, 1983, 96 Stat. 2413.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "Subtitle IV of title 49" substituted in text for "The Interstate
    Commerce Act and the several amendments made or to be made thereto
    [49 U.S.C. 1 et seq.]" and "the Act of Congress entitled 'An Act to
    amend an Act entitled "An Act to regulate commerce," approved
    February 4, 1887, and all Acts amendatory thereof, by providing for
    a valuation of the several classes of property of carriers subject
    thereto and securing information concerning their stocks, bonds,
    and other securities,' approved March 1, 1913 [49 U.S.C. 19a]" on
    authority of Pub. L. 95-473, Sec. 3(b), Oct. 17, 1978, 92 Stat.
    1466, the first section of which enacted subtitle IV (Sec. 10101 et
    seq.) of Title 49, Transportation.
      Section is comprised of second paragraph of section 38 of act
    Mar. 2, 1917. The first and third paragraphs of section 38 were
    classified to sections 750 and 753, respectively, of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1927 - Act Mar. 4, 1927, reenacted section without change.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 752                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 752. Corporate real estate holdings

-STATUTE-
      No corporation shall be authorized to conduct the business of
    buying and selling real estate or be permitted to hold or own real
    estate except such as may be reasonably necessary to enable it to
    carry out the purposes for which it was created, and every
    corporation authorized after May 1, 1900, to engage in agriculture
    shall by its charter be restricted to the ownership and control of
    not to exceed five hundred acres of land; and this provision shall
    be held to prevent any member of a corporation engaged in
    agriculture from being in any wise interested in any other
    corporation engaged in agriculture. Corporations, however, may loan
    funds upon real estate security, and purchase real estate when
    necessary for the collection of loans, but they shall dispose of
    real estate so obtained within five years after receiving the
    title. Corporations not organized in Puerto Rico, and doing
    business therein, shall be bound by the provisions of this section
    so far as they are applicable.

-SOURCE-
    (May 1, 1900, No. 23, Sec. 3, 31 Stat. 716; Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145,
    Sec. 39, 39 Stat. 964; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; July 3,
    1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of section 3 (less first sentence) of act
    May 1, 1900. The first sentence of such section 3 was superseded by
    section 39 of act Mar. 2, 1917. Prior to repeal of such section 39
    by act July 3, 1950, the sentence read: "That all franchises,
    privileges or concessions granted under section thirty-two of said
    Act [act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat. 83] shall provide that
    the same shall be subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal;
    shall forbid the issue of stock or bonds, except in exchange for
    actual cash, or property at a fair valuation, equal in amount to
    the par value of the stock or bonds issued; shall forbid the
    declaring of stock or bond dividends; and, in the case of public-
    service corporations, shall provide for the effective regulation
    of the charges thereof and for the purchase or taking by the public
    authorities of their property at a fair and reasonable valuation."
      Section was not enacted as a part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                  REPEALS                              
      Section 5(2) of act July 3, 1950, repealed section 39 of act Mar.
    2, 1917, cited as a credit to this section, eff. July 25, 1952. See
    Effective Date of Repeal note set out below.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of section 39 of act Mar. 2, 1917, effective July 25,
    1952, see note set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 753, 754                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 753, 754. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 753, 754. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), (4), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 753, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 38, 39 Stat. 964;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 6, 44 Stat. 1420; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158, authorized Legislature to regulate rates,
    tariffs, etc., of public carriers and public service commission to
    enforce those laws.
      Section 754, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 35, 39 Stat. 963;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, which had been transferred to
    section 814a of this title, related to qualifications of electors.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 753 and 754 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 755                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 755. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 11, 31 Stat. 80,
    provided for redemption by Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto
    Rican silver coins known as the peso and all other Puerto Rican
    silver and coppers in circulation on Apr. 12, 1900, except those
    imported after Feb. 1, 1900, at rate of 60 cents per peso and for
    recoinage of such coins into United States coins, and made United
    States coins sole legal tender in payment of debts, except those
    owing prior to Apr. 12, 1900, which were payable in Puerto Rico
    coins or their exchanged equivalents.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT
           OFFICIALS                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
          SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS      

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 771 to 793                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 771 to 793. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 771 to 793. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 771, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 12, 39 Stat. 950;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; Aug. 5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 1,
    61 Stat. 770, related to election, tenure of office, and
    qualifications of governor.
      Section 771a, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 12a, as added Aug.
    5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 2, 61 Stat. 771, related to impeachment of
    governor.
      Section 772, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 958;
    Aug. 5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 4, 61 Stat. 771, related to succession
    to office of governor.
      Section 773, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 955;
    Feb. 18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1168, related to executive
    departments.
      Section 774, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 37, 39 Stat. 964,
    prohibited Legislature from creating new departments but authorized
    their consolidation or abolition.
      Section 775, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 955;
    Feb. 18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1168; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; Aug. 5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 3, 61 Stat. 771,
    related to appointment and tenure of office of heads of
    departments.
      Section 776, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 956;
    Feb. 18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1168; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158, related to residence requirement for heads of
    departments.
      Section 777, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 956;
    Feb. 18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1168, related to executive
    council and its duties and compensation.
      Section 778, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 14, 39 Stat. 956;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to duties of Attorney
    General.
      Section 779, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 22, 39 Stat. 958;
    June 27, 1924, ch. 322, Sec. 2, 43 Stat. 631; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; June 24, 1948, ch. 610, Sec. 6, 62 Stat. 580,
    related to powers and duties of executive secretary.
      Section 780, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 15, 39 Stat. 956;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to powers and duties
    of Treasurer, including designation of depositaries.
      Section 781, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 15, 39 Stat. 956;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, required Treasurer to give a
    bond not less than $125,000.
      Section 782, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 16, 39 Stat. 956,
    related to duties of Commissioner of the Interior.
      Section 783, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 17, 39 Stat. 956;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to duties of
    Commissioner of Education.
      Section 784, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 18, 39 Stat. 957;
    Feb. 18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 2, 46 Stat. 1168; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158, related to duties of Commissioner of Agriculture
    and Commerce.
      Section 784a, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 18a, as added Feb.
    18, 1931, ch. 218, Sec. 3, 46 Stat. 1169, and amended May 17, 1932,
    ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to duties of Commissioner of Labor.
      Section 785, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 19, 39 Stat. 957,
    related to duties of Commissioner of Health.
      Section 786, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    June 7, 1924, ch. 322, Sec. 1, 43 Stat. 631; Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503,
    Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1419; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; June
    24, 1948, ch. 610, Sec. 5, 62 Stat. 580, related to appointment,
    compensation and term of office of Auditor and his powers and
    duties, and provided for an assistant auditor and other necessary
    assistants and employees.
      Section 787, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1419, related to
    jurisdiction of Auditor over accounts.
      Section 788, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Secs. 301, 304, 42 Stat. 23 to 25; Mar. 4,
    1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1419, related to finality of
    decisions of Auditor and time for appeal therefrom, and vested such
    official with like authority as that conferred by law upon
    Comptroller General of the United States, with certain exceptions.
      Section 789, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 21, 39 Stat. 958,
    related to appeals from decisions of Auditor to Governor.
      Section 790, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1420, related to annual
    report of the fiscal concern of the government from Auditor to
    Governor and those other reports as may be required.
      Section 791, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1419, authorized Auditor to
    summon witnesses, administer oaths, take evidence, etc.
      Section 792, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1420, related to
    supervision of office of Auditor by Governor.
      Section 793, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 957;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 3, 44 Stat. 1419; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158, related to performance of powers and duties of
    Auditor in case of a vacancy in the office or in his absence by the
    assistant auditor, or in the absence of that assistant, by an
    assistant designated by Governor.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 771 to 793 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 793a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 793a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 793a. Repealed. June 30, 1954, ch. 428, Sec. 1, 68 Stat. 336.
      Section, act Mar. 2, 1934, ch. 37, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 361, created
    a Model Housing Board, and provided for construction and sale of
    model houses and for creation of a revolving "model housing fund".

                  DISPOSITION OF MONEYS IN REVOLVING FUND              
      Act June 30, 1954, ch. 428, Sec. 2, 68 Stat. 336, authorized
    transfer of any moneys remaining in revolving model housing fund
    under this section to treasury of Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 793b                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 793b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 793b. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 49b, as added Aug. 5,
    1947, ch. 490, Sec. 6, 61 Stat. 772, and amended June 24, 1948, ch.
    610, Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 579, provided for a Coordinator of Federal
    Agencies in Puerto Rico, his appointment, compensation and duties,
    and required President to prescribe rules and regulations to carry
    out provisions of former section 793 of this title.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective July 25, 1952, see note set out under section
    732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 794                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 794. Official reports

-STATUTE-
      All reports required by law to be made by the governor or heads
    of departments to any official of the United States shall be made
    to an executive department of the Government of the United States
    to be designated by the President, and the President is authorized
    to place all matters pertaining to the government of Puerto Rico in
    the jurisdiction of such department.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 11, 39 Stat. 955; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    July 15, 1909, ch. 4, Sec. 2, 36 Stat. 11.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-EXEC-
       EX. ORD. NO. 9383. COORDINATION OF FUNCTIONS AND POLICIES OF
       FEDERAL CIVIL AGENCIES IN PUERTO RICO AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
      Ex. Ord. No. 9383, eff. Oct. 5, 1943, 8 F.R. 13781, provided:
      1. Each Federal civil agency performing services in Puerto Rico
    or in the Virgin Islands shall make current reports to the
    Secretary of the Interior concerning the work of such agency in
    such manner and form and at such times as may be prescribed by the
    Secretary of the Interior.
      2. The Secretary of the Interior shall make such recommendations
    to the heads of Federal civil agencies so reporting as may in his
    judgment serve to correlate the work of such agencies in Puerto
    Rico and in the Virgin Islands, eliminate unessential Federal
    activities, assist insular agencies to assume increasing
    responsibility in civil administration, meet more efficiently the
    needs of the people of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands for
    essential Federal services, and implement the policies of the
    United States with respect to its island possessions.
      3. The Secretary of the Interior shall from time to time report
    to the President and to the Congress concerning the actions taken
    pursuant to this order.
      4. This order shall not be applicable to United States District
    Judges, United States Attorneys, and United States Marshals.
                                                  Franklin D. Roosevelt.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 795                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 795. Government expenses payable out of revenues

-STATUTE-
      All expenses that may be incurred on account of the government of
    Puerto Rico for salaries of officials and the conduct of their
    offices and departments, and all expenses and obligations
    contracted for the internal improvement or development of the
    island, not, however, including defenses, barracks, harbors,
    lighthouses, buoys, and other works undertaken by the United
    States, shall, except as otherwise specifically provided by the
    Congress, be paid by the treasurer of Puerto Rico out of the
    revenue in his custody.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 6, 39 Stat. 953; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 12, 31 Stat. 80, with the exception of
    the words "except as otherwise specifically provided by the
    Congress".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 796 to 799                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE AND GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 796 to 799. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 796 to 799. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 796, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 53, 39 Stat. 968;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to transfer of bureaus
    or offices.
      Section 797, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 50, 39 Stat. 967;
    June 7, 1924, ch. 322, Sec. 3, 43 Stat. 631; May 29, 1928, ch. 904,
    Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat. 997; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; Aug.
    5, 1947, ch. 490, Sec. 5, 61 Stat. 771; June 24, 1948, ch. 610,
    Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 579; Sept. 7, 1949, ch. 544, 63 Stat. 692, related
    to salaries and bonds of officials, and residence of governor.
      Section 798, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 50, 39 Stat. 967;
    June 7, 1924, ch. 322, Sec. 3, 43 Stat. 631; June 24, 1948, ch.
    610, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 579; Sept. 7, 1949, ch. 544, 63 Stat. 692,
    related to payment of salaries, office expenses and bond premiums.
      Section 799, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 51, 39 Stat. 967,
    provided for payment of municipal expenses from municipal revenues.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 796 to 799 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 811 to 820                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 811 to 820. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 811 to 820. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 811, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 25, 39 Stat. 958;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, vested all local legislative
    powers in Puerto Rico, with certain exceptions, in "Legislature of
    Puerto Rico", consisting of a "senate" and a "house of
    representatives".
      Section 812, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 958;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to Senate of Puerto
    Rico, its members, election and powers.
      Section 813, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 27, 39 Stat. 959;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to House of
    Representatives and its members and their election.
      Section 814, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 28, 39 Stat. 959;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, provided for division of
    Puerto Rico into thirty-five representative and seven senatorial
    districts.
      Section 814a, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 35, 39 Stat. 963;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to qualification of
    electors.
      Section 815, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 29, 39 Stat. 959;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, provided for time of holding
    elections and revision of boundaries of senatorial and
    representative districts and municipalities.
      Section 816, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 32, 39 Stat. 960,
    related to powers of senate and house of representatives, including
    determination of election and qualifications of members.
      Section 817, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 33, 39 Stat. 960;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 5, 44 Stat. 1420, provided for holding
    of annual sessions of legislature and time for convening.
      Section 818, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 33, 39 Stat. 960;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 5, 44 Stat. 1420, authorized governor
    to call special sessions of legislature or senate.
      Section 819, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 30, 39 Stat. 959;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; June 1, 1938, ch. 308, 52
    Stat. 595, related to term of office of senators and
    representatives, filling of vacancies, and limitations upon
    appointment to other offices of those legislative members.
      Section 820, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 31, 39 Stat. 960;
    Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 503, Sec. 4, 44 Stat. 1420; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; June 24, 1948, ch. 610, Sec. 4, 62 Stat. 580,
    related to compensation and mileage of members of senate and house
    of representatives.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 811 to 820 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 821                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 821. Legislative power

-STATUTE-
      The legislative authority shall extend to all matters of a
    legislative character not locally inapplicable, including power to
    create, consolidate, and reorganize the municipalities so far as
    may be necessary, and to provide and repeal laws and ordinances
    therefor; also the power to alter, amend, modify, or repeal any or
    all laws and ordinances of every character in force in Puerto Rico
    or municipality or district thereof on March 2, 1917, insofar as
    such alteration, amendment, modification, or repeal may be
    consistent with the provisions of this chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 37, 39 Stat. 964; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended,
    known as the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and also popularly
    known as the Jones Act, which is classified principally to this
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 731 of this title and
    Tables.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 822, 823                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 822, 823. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 822, 823. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 822, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 960,
    related to origin of bills and resolutions.
      Section 823, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 960;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to enacting clauses of
    bills and resolutions.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 822 and 823 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 823a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 823a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act June 16, 1938, ch. 460, 52 Stat. 708, related to
    Congressional ratification of all joint resolutions.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 824 to 844                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 824 to 844. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 824 to 844. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64
      Stat. 320.
      Section 824, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961,
    related to passage of bills and their alterations or amendments.
      Section 825, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 960,
    related to reference of bills to committees, signature by governor,
    and approval by President.
      Section 826, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961;
    May 29, 1928, ch. 901, Sec. 1(128), 45 Stat. 996; Feb. 28, 1929,
    ch. 364, Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat. 1348; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat.
    158, required laws enacted by Legislature of Puerto Rico to be
    reported to Congress.
      Section 827, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961,
    related to time of taking effect of laws and to introduction of a
    bill.
      Section 828, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961,
    related to house journals.
      Section 829, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961,
    required sessions of each house and committees to be open.
      Section 830, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 961,
    related to adjournment.
      Section 831, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    required presiding officer to sign bills and resolutions.
      Section 832, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    provided that bills, with the exception of appropriation bills,
    were to contain one subject.
      Section 833, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    provided that revenue bills were to originate in house of
    representatives.
      Section 834, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    related to appropriation bills for executive, legislative and
    judicial departments.
      Section 835, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    related to revival or amendment of laws.
      Section 836, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    required legislature to prescribe number, duties and compensation
    of officers and employees.
      Section 837, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    prohibited bills giving extra compensation for services rendered.
      Section 838, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962;
    June 24, 1948, ch. 610, Sec. 3, 62 Stat. 580 prohibited laws
    relating to extension of term of office of officials, double jobs
    and salary of senators or representatives during term of office.
      Section 839, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    related to presentation of orders, resolutions, etc., to Governor.
      Section 840, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 960,
    required Governor to submit a financial budget at opening of each
    regular session of the legislature.
      Section 841, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, provided for order of payment
    of appropriations, where revenue insufficient to meet
    appropriations, and limited appropriations under certain
    conditions.
      Section 842, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 23, 39 Stat. 958;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, required Governor to transmit
    copies of laws to executive department of United States.
      Section 843, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to definition and
    punishment of the offense of corrupt solicitation.
      Section 844, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 34, 39 Stat. 962,
    related to punishment for offense of influencing officials by
    bribery.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of sections 824 to 844 effective July 25, 1952, see note
    set out under section 732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 845                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 845. Income tax laws; modification or repeal by legislature

-STATUTE-
      The Puerto Rican Legislature shall have power by due enactment to
    amend, alter, modify, or repeal the income tax laws in force in
    Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Feb. 26, 1926, ch. 27, Secs. 261, 1200, 44 Stat. 52, 125; May 17,
    1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Similar provisions of act Feb. 26, 1926, which related to the
    Philippine Islands, were formerly classified to section 1055 of
    this title.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    June 2, 1924, ch. 234, Sec. 261, 43 Stat. 294, prior to repeal by
    section 1200 of act Feb. 26, 1926, to take effect Jan. 1, 1925.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                        02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
                       SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                   

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 861                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 861. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 861. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 40, 39 Stat. 965; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, vested judicial power in courts
    established and in operation on Mar. 2, 1917, provided for
    appointment of chief justice and associate justices of the supreme
    court by President with advice and consent of United States Senate,
    and authorized Puerto Rican legislature to organize, modify or
    rearrange the courts and their jurisdiction and procedure, except
    United States District Court.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective July 25, 1952, see note set out under section
    732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 862                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 862. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 365, 42 Stat. 993, conferred on
    the courts of Puerto Rico jurisdiction of offenses under act Oct.
    28, 1919, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 305, the National Prohibition Act.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 863                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 863. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 863. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-272, Sec. 13, June 2, 1970, 84 Stat.
      298.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 41, 39 Stat. 965; Feb.
    25, 1919, ch. 29, Sec. 1, 40 Stat. 1156; Mar. 4, 1921, ch. 161,
    Sec. 1, 41 Stat. 1412; Mar. 4, 1923, ch. 295, 42 Stat. 1560; Dec.
    13, 1926, ch. 6, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 919; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47
    Stat. 158; Mar. 26, 1938, ch. 51, Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 118; July 31,
    1946, ch. 704, 60 Stat. 716; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 20, 62
    Stat. 989, set out jurisdiction of United States District Court for
    District of Puerto Rico and provided for salaries of judge and
    officials of the court and for filling of vacancies. Section 34 of
    act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, 31 Stat. 84, formerly cited as a credit
    to this section, was not repealed by act June 2, 1970.

                             SAVINGS PROVISION                         
      Section 13 of Pub. L. 91-272, as amended by Pub. L. 91-450, Oct.
    14, 1970, 84 Stat. 922, provided in part that nothing in the repeal
    of Act Mar. 2, 1917, as amended, by said section 13 would impair
    the jurisdiction of the United States District Court for the
    District of Puerto Rico to hear and determine any action or matter
    begun in the court on or before June 2, 1970.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 864                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 864. Appeals, certiorari, removal of causes, etc.; use of
      English language

-STATUTE-
      The laws of the United States relating to appeals, certiorari,
    removal of causes, and other matters or proceedings as between the
    courts of the United States and the courts of the several States
    shall govern in such matters and proceedings as between the United
    States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico and the
    courts of Puerto Rico.
      All pleadings and proceedings in the United States District Court
    for the District of Puerto Rico shall be conducted in the English
    language.

-SOURCE-
    (Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 35, 31 Stat. 85; Mar. 2, 1917, ch.
    145, Sec. 42, 39 Stat. 966; Feb. 13, 1925, ch. 229, Sec. 13, 43
    Stat. 942; Jan. 31, 1928, ch. 14, Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 54; May 17,
    1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 21, 62
    Stat. 990.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The laws of the United States relating to appeals, certiorari,
    removal of causes, and other matters or proceedings, referred to in
    text, are classified to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico"
    substituted in text for "District Court of the United States for
    Puerto Rico" in view of section 132(a) of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, which states that "There shall be in each
    judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record
    known as the United States District Court for the district" and
    section 119 of Title 28, which states that "Puerto Rico constitutes
    one judicial district."


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Act Mar. 3, 1911, ch. 231, Sec. 244, 36 Stat. 1157, related to
    direct appeals from The Supreme Court and the United District Court
    for Puerto Rico to the United States Supreme Court, prior to repeal
    by act Jan. 28, 1915, ch. 22, Sec. 3, 38 Stat. 804.
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 34, 31 Stat. 84.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1948 - Act June 25, 1948, amended section generally, and struck
    out provisions relating to the term of district court and appeals
    to the circuit court.
      1928 - Act Jan. 31, 1928, abolished writ of error in civil and
    criminal cases and made all relief formerly obtained by writ of
    error obtainable by appeal.
      1925 - Act Feb. 13, 1925, ch. 229, Sec. 13, repealed provisions
    of this section permitting a direct review by the Supreme Court of
    cases in the courts in Puerto Rico.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.


-MISC2-
                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1948 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act June 25, 1948, effective Sept. 1, 1948, see
    section 38 of that act, set out as an Effective Date note preceding
    section 1 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                                  REPEALS                              
      Section 39 of act June 25, 1948, repealed section 1 of act Feb.
    13, 1925, ch. 229, 43 Stat. 936, formerly cited as a credit to this
    section, which authorized review in the Circuit Court of Appeals in
    the First Circuit.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 865                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 865. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 865. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat. 992.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 43, 39 Stat. 966; Feb.
    13, 1925, ch. 229, Sec. 13, 43 Stat. 942; Jan. 31, 1928, ch. 14,
    Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 54, related to writs of error and appeals. See
    section 1294 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of act June 25,
    1948, set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 1 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 866                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 866. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 35, 31 Stat. 85,
    provided that all proceedings in Supreme Court of United States to
    review decisions of Supreme Court of Puerto Rico and the District
    Court of the United States for Puerto Rico, should be conducted in
    the English language.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 867                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 867. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 867. Repealed. Pub. L. 90-274, Sec. 103(g), Mar. 27, 1968, 82
      Stat. 63.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 44, 39 Stat. 966; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, set out qualifications for jurors
    in District Court of United States for Puerto Rico as different
    from those set by local law and directed that juries be selected,
    drawn, and subject to exemption in accordance with laws of Congress
    insofar as locally applicable.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective 270 days after Mar. 27, 1968, except as to cases
    in which an indictment is returned or petit jury is empaneled prior
    to such effective date, see section 104 of Pub. L. 90-274, set out
    as an Effective Date of 1968 Amendment note under section 1861 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 868                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 868. Fees part of United States revenues

-STATUTE-
      All fees, fines, costs, and forfeitures as would be deposited to
    the credit of the United States if collected and paid into a
    district court of the United States shall become revenues of the
    United States when collected and paid into the United States
    District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. The sum of $500 a
    year from such fees, fines, costs, and forfeitures shall be
    retained by the clerk and expended for law library purposes under
    the direction of the judge.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 45, 39 Stat. 966; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico"
    substituted in text for "District Court of the United States for
    Puerto Rico" in view of section 132(a) of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, which states that "There shall be in each
    judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record
    known as the United States District Court for the district" and
    section 119 of Title 28, which states that "Puerto Rico constitutes
    one judicial district".


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 812, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 953.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 869                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 869. Fees payable by United States out of revenue of Puerto
      Rico

-STATUTE-
      Such fees and expenses as are payable by the United States if
    earned or incurred in connection with a district court of the
    United States shall be paid from the revenue of Puerto Rico if
    earned or incurred in connection with the United States District
    Court for the District of Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1901, ch. 812, Sec. 2, 31 Stat. 953; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico"
    substituted in text for "District Court of the United States for
    Puerto Rico" in view of section 132(a) of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, which states that "There shall be in each
    judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record
    known as the United States District Court for the district" and
    section 119 of Title 28 which states that "Puerto Rico constitutes
    one judicial district".
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.
      As originally enacted, so much of section 2 of act Mar. 2, 1901,
    as is pertinent here, was as follows: "Such fees and expenses as
    are payable by the United States, if earned or incurred in
    connection with a circuit or district court of the United States,
    shall be paid from the revenues of Porto Rico, if earned or
    incurred in connection with the district court of the United States
    for Porto Rico."

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 870                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 870. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 870. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat. 992.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 46, 39 Stat. 966; Feb.
    26, 1919, ch. 49, Secs. 2, 4, 40 Stat. 1182; Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 501,
    Sec. 6, 53 Stat. 1226, related to salaries of district court
    officials. See section 604 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of act June 25,
    1948, set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 1 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 871                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 871. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 47, 39 Stat. 967; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, which related to fees and mileage
    of jurors and witnesses, was superseded by sections 1821, 1825 and
    1871 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 872                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 872. Habeas corpus; mandamus; suit to restrain assessment or
      collection of taxes

-STATUTE-
      The supreme and district courts of Puerto Rico and the respective
    judges thereof may grant writs of habeas corpus in all cases in
    which the same are grantable by the judges of the district courts
    of the United States, and the district courts may grant writs of
    mandamus in all proper cases.
      No suit for the purpose of restraining the assessment or
    collection of any tax imposed by the laws of Puerto Rico shall be
    maintained in the United States District Court for the District of
    Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1927, ch. 145, Sec. 48, 39 Stat. 967; Mar. 4, 1927, ch.
    503, Sec. 7, 44 Stat. 1421; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico"
    substituted in text for "District Court of the United States for
    Puerto Rico" in view of section 132(a) of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, which states that "There shall be in each
    judicial district a district court which shall be a court of record
    known as the United States District Court for the district" and
    section 119 of Title 28 which states that "Puerto Rico constitutes
    one judicial district".


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1927 - Act Mar. 4, 1927, added second paragraph.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 873                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 873. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 873. Repealed. July 3, 1950, ch. 446, Sec. 5(2), 64 Stat. 320.
      Section, acts Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 49, 39 Stat. 967; May
    17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to appointment of judges,
    marshals and secretaries.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective July 25, 1952, see note set out under section
    732 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 873a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 873a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 873a. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat. 992.
      Section, act Feb. 12, 1940, ch. 25, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 22, which
    related to rules governing civil cases. See section 2072 of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of act June 25,
    1948, set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 1 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 874                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 874. Judicial process; officials to be citizens of United
      States; oath

-STATUTE-
      All judicial process shall run in the name of "United States of
    America, ss, the President of the United States", and all penal or
    criminal prosecutions in the local courts shall be conducted in the
    name and by the authority of "The People of Puerto Rico." All
    officials shall be citizens of the United States, and, before
    entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall take an
    oath to support the Constitution of the United States and the laws
    of Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 10, 39 Stat. 954; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 16, 31 Stat. 81.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 875, 876                                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Secs. 875, 876. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 875, 876. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat.
      992.
      Section 875, act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 55, 39 Stat. 968,
    related to continuation of court's jurisdiction.
      Section 876, act Jan. 7, 1913, ch. 6, 37 Stat. 648, related to
    temporary judge.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of act June 25,
    1948, set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 1 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER

-HEAD-
                   SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 891                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER

-HEAD-
    Sec. 891. Resident Commissioner; election

-STATUTE-
      The qualified electors of Puerto Rico shall choose a Resident
    Commissioner to the United States at each general election, whose
    term of office shall be four years from the 3d of January following
    such general election, and who shall be entitled to receive
    official recognition as such commissioner by all of the departments
    of the Government of the United States, upon presentation, through
    the Department of State, of a certificate of election of the
    Governor of Puerto Rico.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 36, 39 Stat. 963; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; June 5, 1934, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 48 Stat. 879.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of second sentence of section 36 of act Mar.
    2, 1917. The first sentence of section 36, providing for election
    of a Resident Commissioner to the United States at the next general
    election for a term commencing with date of issuance of certificate
    of election and terminating Mar. 4, 1921, was omitted. Parts of the
    third and fourth sentences of section 36 are classified to section
    893 of this title. The other part of the third sentence of section
    36, which fixed the salary of the commissioner at $7,500 per annum,
    was superseded by act Feb. 26, 1907, ch. 1635, Sec. 4, 34 Stat.
    993, as amended by act Mar. 4, 1925, ch. 549, Sec. 4, 43 Stat.
    1301. See Prior Provisions note under section 31 of Title 2, The
    Congress. The other part of the fourth sentence of section 36,
    which allowed the commissioner $500 as mileage, was classified to
    former section 46 of Title 2 and was omitted from the Code as
    superseded by former section 43b-1 of Title 2. The fifth and sixth
    sentences of section 36 are classified to section 892 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 39, 31 Stat. 86.
      The salary allowed by section 39 of act Apr. 12, 1900, was
    increased by act Feb. 26, 1907, ch. 1635, Sec. 4, 34 Stat. 993.
      The resident commissioner was allowed traveling expenses in
    addition to his salary, and the commencement of his term was fixed
    by act July 1, 1902, ch. 1383, Sec. 3, 32 Stat. 732.
      The manner of paying the salary and traveling expenses of the
    resident commissioner was fixed by a provision of act June 22,
    1906, ch. 3514, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 417.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1934 - Act June 5, 1934, changed commencement of term of office
    from Mar. 4 to Jan. 3 following the general election.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 892                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER

-HEAD-
    Sec. 892. Qualifications of Commissioner; appointment to fill
      vacancy

-STATUTE-
      No person shall be eligible to election as Resident Commissioner
    who is not a bona fide citizen of the United States and who is not
    more than twenty-five years of age, and who does not read and write
    the English language. In case of a vacancy in the office of
    Resident Commissioner by death, resignation, or otherwise, the
    governor, by and with the advice and consent of the senate, shall
    appoint a Resident Commissioner to fill the vacancy, who shall
    serve until the next general election and until his successor is
    elected and qualified.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 36, 39 Stat. 963.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of fifth and sixth sentences of section 36
    of act Mar. 2, 1917. For classification of the remainder of section
    36, see Codification note set out under section 891 of this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in act
    Apr. 12, 1900, ch. 191, Sec. 39, 31 Stat. 86.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 893                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER

-HEAD-
    Sec. 893. Salary of Commissioner; allowances; franking privilege

-STATUTE-
      The Resident Commissioner shall receive a salary payable monthly
    by the United States. He shall be allowed the same sum for
    stationery and for the pay of necessary clerk hire as is allowed
    Members of the House of Representatives of the United States. He
    shall be allowed the franking privilege granted Members of
    Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, Sec. 36, 39 Stat. 963; Mar. 4, 1925, ch.
    549, Sec. 4, 43 Stat. 1301.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is comprised of parts of third and fourth sentences of
    section 36 of act Mar. 2, 1917. For classification of the remainder
    of section 36, see Codification note set out under section 891 of
    this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 894                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER V - RESIDENT COMMISSIONER

-HEAD-
    Sec. 894. Salary and traveling expenses; payment

-STATUTE-
      The salary and traveling expenses of the Resident Commissioner
    from Puerto Rico to the United States shall be paid by the Chief
    Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives in the same
    manner as the salaries of the members of the House of
    Representatives are paid.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1906, ch. 3514, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 417; May 17, 1932, ch.
    190, 47 Stat. 158; Pub. L. 104-186, title II, Sec. 224(1), Aug. 20,
    1996, 110 Stat. 1752.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1996 - Pub. L. 104-186 substituted "Chief Administrative Officer"
    for "Sergeant-at-Arms".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      "Puerto Rico" substituted in text for "Porto Rico" pursuant to
    act May 17, 1932, which is classified to section 731a of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN
           REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

-HEAD-
      SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 910                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 910. Slum clearance and urban redevelopment and renewal
      projects; powers of government

-STATUTE-
      The government of Puerto Rico acting through its legislature, may
    create a public corporate authority or authorities and may
    authorize such authority or authorities or any other public
    corporate authority or any municipal corporation or political
    subdivision, acting directly or through any officer or agency
    thereof or through a public corporate authority, to undertake slum
    clearance and urban redevelopment projects and urban renewal
    projects and to do all things, exercise any and all powers, and to
    assume and fulfill any and all obligations, duties,
    responsibilities, and requirements, including but not limited to
    those relating to planning and zoning, necessary or desirable for
    receiving Federal assistance under title I of the Housing Act of
    1949 (Public Law 171, Eighty-first Congress), as amended [42 U.S.C.
    1450 et seq.], or any other law, except that public corporate
    authorities (as distinct from municipalities or political
    subdivisions) created or authorized to operate in accordance with
    this Act, as amended, shall not be given any power of taxation or
    any power to pledge the full faith and credit of the people of the
    Territory, or municipality, or political subdivision, as the case
    may be, for any loan whatever. The Legislature of Puerto Rico may,
    with respect to any public corporate authority or authorities
    empowered or which may be empowered to undertake slum clearance and
    urban redevelopment projects and urban renewal projects, provide
    for the appointment and terms of office of the members thereof, and
    for the powers of such authorities, including authority to accept
    whatever benefits the Federal Government may make available for
    slum clearance and urban redevelopment projects and urban renewal
    projects, and authority, notwithstanding any other Federal law, to
    borrow money and to issue notes, bonds, and other obligations of
    such character and maturity, with such security, and in such manner
    as the respective legislatures may provide. Such notes, bonds, and
    other obligations shall not be a debt of the United States, or of
    any Territory or municipal corporation or other political
    subdivision or agency thereof other than the public corporate
    authority which issued such notes, bonds, or obligations, nor
    constitute a debt, indebtedness, or the borrowing of money within
    the meaning of any limitation or restriction on the issuance of
    notes, bonds, or other obligations contained in any laws of the
    United States applicable to Puerto Rico, or to any municipal
    corporation or other political subdivision or agency thereof.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 101, 64 Stat. 344; Aug. 11,
    1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), (7), (9), 69 Stat. 637, 638.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 171, Eighty-first Congress),
    as amended, referred to in text, is act July 15, 1949, ch. 338, 63
    Stat. 413, as amended. Title I of the Housing Act of 1949 was
    classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 1450 et seq.) of
    chapter 8A of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare, and was
    omitted from the Code pursuant to section 5316 of Title 42 which
    terminated the authority to make grants or loans under such title I
    after Jan. 1, 1975. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1441 of Title 42
    and Tables.
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted sections 480 to 480b, 483a, 483b, 721 to 721b,
    910 to 910b, 1408 to 1408e of this title, amended sections 481 to
    483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes
    under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.
      Section 101 of act July 18, 1950, cited as a credit to this
    section, as applicable to Alaska and Hawaii, was classified to
    sections 480 and 721 of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1955 - Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects, and
    inserted "as amended" after "(Public Law 171, Eighty-first
    Congress)" and after "this Act".

                         URBAN RENEWAL ACTIVITIES                     
      Financial assistance available for urban renewal projects, see
    section 107(1), (2) of act Aug. 11, 1955.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 910a                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 910a. Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by government
      and municipalities

-STATUTE-
      The government of Puerto Rico may assist slum clearance and urban
    redevelopment projects and urban renewal projects through cash
    donations, loans, conveyances of real and personal property,
    facilities, and services, and otherwise, and may authorize
    municipalities or other political subdivisions to make cash
    donations, loans, conveyances of real and personal property to
    public corporate authorities and to take other action, including
    but not limited to the making available or the furnishing of
    facilities and services, in aid of slum clearance and urban
    redevelopment projects and urban renewal projects.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 102, 64 Stat. 344; Aug. 11,
    1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(3), 69 Stat. 637.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.
      Section 102 of act July 18, 1950, cited as a credit to this
    section, as applicable to Alaska and Hawaii, was classified to
    sections 480a and 721a of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1955 - Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 910b                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SLUM CLEARANCE AND URBAN REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 910b. Ratification of prior acts

-STATUTE-
      All legislation heretofore enacted by the Legislature of the
    Territory of Puerto Rico dealing with the subject matter of this
    Act and not inconsistent herewith is ratified and confirmed.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title I, Sec. 103, 64 Stat. 345.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted sections 480 to 480b, 483a, 483b, 721 to 721b,
    910 to 910b, 1408 to 1408e of this title, amended sections 481 to
    483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as notes
    under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.
      Section 103 of act July 18, 1950, cited as a credit to this
    section, as applicable to Alaska and Hawaii, was classified to
    sections 480b and 721b of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND
           ELIMINATION OF SUB-STANDARD HOUSING             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
       SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
                           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 911                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 911. Legislative authorization to create authorities

-STATUTE-
      The Legislature of Puerto Rico may create public corporate
    authorities to undertake slum clearance and projects to provide
    dwelling accommodations for families of low income.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 912                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 912. Authority to appoint commissioners; powers of authorities

-STATUTE-
      The Legislature of Puerto Rico may provide for the appointment
    and terms of the commissioners of such authorities, and for the
    powers of such authorities, except that such authorities shall be
    given no power of taxation, and may authorize the commissioners of
    such authorities to fix the salaries of employees.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 2, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 913                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 913. Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by
      municipalities

-STATUTE-
      The legislature may appropriate funds for and may make and
    authorize any municipality of Puerto Rico to make loans, donations,
    and conveyances of money or property to such authorities; may make
    and authorize any municipality of Puerto Rico to make available its
    facilities and services to such authorities and take other action
    in aid of slum clearance or low-rent housing; and may, without
    regard to any Federal Acts restricting the disposition of public
    property or lands in Puerto Rico, provide for the use by or
    disposal to such authorities of any public lands or other property
    held or controlled by the people of Puerto Rico, its
    municipalities, or other subdivisions.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 3, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 914                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 914. Issuance of bonds and obligations

-STATUTE-
      The legislature may authorize such authorities to issue bonds or
    other obligations with such security as the legislature may provide
    and may provide for the disposition of the proceeds of such bonds
    and all receipts and revenues of such authorities.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 4, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 915                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 915. Bonds as public debt

-STATUTE-
      Such bonds shall not be a debt of Puerto Rico or any
    municipality, and shall not constitute a public indebtedness within
    the meaning of section 745 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 5, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 916                                             02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 4 - PUERTO RICO
    SUBCHAPTER VII - LOW RENT HOUSING PROJECTS AND ELIMINATION OF
           SUB-STANDARD HOUSING                          

-HEAD-
    Sec. 916. Ratification of previous legislation

-STATUTE-
      All legislation heretofore enacted by the Legislature of Puerto
    Rico dealing with the subject matter of sections 911 to 916 of this
    title and not inconsistent herewith is ratified and confirmed.

-SOURCE-
    (June 25, 1938, ch. 703, Sec. 6, 52 Stat. 1203.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Puerto Rican Federal
    Relations Act which comprises this chapter.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                      CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS                  


-MISC1-
                          PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE                      
      Independence of Philippine Islands recognized and American
    sovereignty withdrawn by Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R.
    7517, 60 Stat. 1352, issued pursuant to section 1394 of Title 22,
    Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and set out under that section.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1001 to 1008                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1001 to 1008. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1001 to 1008 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1001, act Aug. 29, 1916, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 545, defined
    Philippine Islands.
      Section 1002, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 2, 39 Stat. 546,
    related to Philippine citizenship.
      Section 1003, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to application of statutory law of United States.
      Section 1004, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 6, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to continuing force and effect of Philippine laws.
      Section 1005, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to power of Philippine Legislature to modify, repeal, etc.,
    laws.
      Section 1006, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 31, 39 Stat. 556,
    related to laws continued in force.
      Section 1007, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 4, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to payment of expenses of Philippine government.
      Section 1007a, acts Sept. 1, 1937, ch. 898, title V, Sec. 503, 50
    Stat. 915; Oct. 15, 1940, ch. 887, 54 Stat. 1178, related to
    appropriations for financing program of economic adjustment.
      Section 1008, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 546,
    related to a bill of rights and restrictions for Philippine
    Islands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1009                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1009. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1009. Repealed. Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 655, Sec. 56(d), 65 Stat.
      729.
      Section, act Mar. 8, 1902, ch. 140, Sec. 9, 32 Stat. 55, related
    to requirements as to evidence in treason cases in Philippines.

                             SAVINGS PROVISION                         
      Section 56(l) of act Oct. 31, 1951, provided that the repeal of
    this section should not affect any rights or liabilities existing
    hereunder on the effective date of that repeal (Oct. 31, 1951).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1010 to 1019                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1010 to 1019. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1010 to 1019 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1010, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 11, 39 Stat. 548;
    July 21, 1921, ch. 51, 42 Stat. 145; May 31, 1922, ch. 203, 42
    Stat. 599, related to prohibition against export duties and
    imposition of taxes and assessments.
      Section 1011, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 84, 32 Stat. 711;
    July 1, 1944, ch. 373, title VII, Sec. 711, 58 Stat. 714; Aug. 13,
    1946, ch. 958, Sec. 5, 60 Stat. 1049, related to shipping, customs,
    duties, seamen, and health laws.
      Section 1011a, act July 3, 1930, ch. 831, 46 Stat. 851, related
    to imports consigned to departments and bureaus of United States
    Government.
      Section 1012, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 5, 33 Stat. 692,
    related to admission free of duty of railroad material.
      Section 1013, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 6, 33 Stat. 692,
    related to administration of immigration laws.
      Section 1014, act Apr. 29, 1908, ch. 152, Sec. 5, 35 Stat. 70,
    related to administration of navigation laws.
      Section 1015, act Apr. 29, 1908, ch. 152, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 70,
    related to temporary regulation of transportation of merchandise
    and passengers.
      Section 1016, acts Apr. 29, 1908, ch. 152, Sec. 4, 35 Stat. 70;
    Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 22, 39 Stat. 553, related to licenses
    to certain vessels.
      Section 1017, act Apr. 29, 1908, ch. 152, Sec. 3, 35 Stat. 70,
    related to inapplicability to certain foreign vessels of
    restrictions on transportation of merchandise and passengers.
      Section 1018, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 11, 32 Stat. 695,
    related to improvement of harbors and navigable waters.
      Section 1019, acts Mar. 22, 1902, ch. 273, 32 Stat. 88; Mar. 2,
    1917, ch. 145, Sec. 54, 39 Stat. 968, related to acknowledgment of
    deeds.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1041 to 1055                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1041 to 1055. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1041 to 1055 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1041, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 8, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to grant of legislative power to Philippine Legislature.
      Section 1042, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 10, 39 Stat. 548,
    related to Legislature's authority over trade relations, tariff
    acts, and immigration.
      Section 1043, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 12, 39 Stat. 548,
    related to composition of Legislature.
      Section 1044, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 13, 39 Stat. 549,
    related to qualifications and election of senators.
      Section 1045, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, 14, 39 Stat. 549,
    related to qualifications and election of representatives.
      Section 1046, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 16, 39 Stat. 549,
    related to senatorial and representative districts.
      Section 1047, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 15, 39 Stat. 549,
    related to qualifications of voters.
      Section 1048, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 17, 39 Stat. 550,
    related to terms of office of senators and representatives.
      Section 1049, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 18, 39 Stat. 550,
    related to legislative sessions.
      Section 1050, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 18, 39 Stat. 550,
    related to compensation and privileges of members.
      Section 1051, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 18, 39 Stat. 550,
    related to ineligibility of senators and representatives to hold
    certain offices.
      Section 1052, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 19, 39 Stat. 551,
    related to enactment of laws and approval by President of the
    United States.
      Section 1053, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 19, 39 Stat. 551,
    related to failure to make appropriations.
      Section 1054, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 19, 39 Stat. 551;
    May 29, 1928, ch. 901, Sec. 1, 45 Stat. 996; Feb. 28, 1929, ch.
    364, Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat. 1348, related to reporting of laws to
    Congress.
      Section 1055, acts June 2, 1924, ch. 234, Sec. 261, 43 Stat. 294;
    Feb. 26, 1926, ch. 27, Secs. 261, 1200, 44 Stat. 52, 125, related
    to income tax laws.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1071 to 1078                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1071 to 1078. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1071 to 1078 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1071, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 9, 32 Stat. 695;
    Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 555, related to
    jurisdiction of the courts.
      Section 1072, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to admiralty jurisdiction.
      Section 1073, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to appointment of chief justice and associate justices of
    supreme court.
      Section 1074, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to appointment of judges of courts of first instance.
      Section 1075, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 29, 39 Stat. 556;
    May 29, 1928, ch. 904, Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat. 997, related to
    salaries of judges.
      Section 1075a, act May 29, 1928, ch. 904, Secs. 1, 2, 45 Stat.
    997, related to salaries of judges.
      Section 1076, act Apr. 9, 1910, No. 19, 36 Stat. 877, related to
    special terms of supreme court.
      Section 1077, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 7, 33 Stat. 692,
    related to temporary judges of supreme court, prior to repeal by
    Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 639.
      Section 1078, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 26, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to jurisdiction of municipal courts.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1091 to 1094                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1091 to 1094. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1091 to 1094 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1091, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 552;
    June 5, 1934, ch. 390, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 879, related to appointment
    and qualifications of Resident Commissioners.
      Section 1092, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 8, 32 Stat. 694;
    Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 552, related to temporary
    appointment of Resident Commissioners.
      Section 1093, acts May 22, 1908, ch. 186, Sec. 1, 35 Stat. 188;
    May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158, related to salary of Resident
    Commissioners.
      Section 1094, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 20, 39 Stat. 552,
    related to allowance for stationery and clerk hire.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1111 to 1125                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1111 to 1125. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1111 to 1125 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1111, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 21, 39 Stat. 552,
    related to appointment, powers, and duties of Governor General.
      Section 1112, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 23, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to designation of acting Governor General.
      Section 1113, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 23, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to appointment and duties of Vice Governor.
      Section 1114, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 22, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to increase or decrease in executive departments.
      Section 1115, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 22, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to bureau of non-christian tribes.
      Section 1116, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to appointment and duties of auditor.
      Section 1117, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to deputy and assistant auditor.
      Section 1118, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to administrative jurisdiction of accounts.
      Section 1119, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to auditor's authority to summon witnesses.
      Section 1120, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553;
    June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Secs. 301, 310, 42 Stat. 23, 25, related to
    finality of auditor's decisions.
      Section 1121, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to reports by auditors to Governor General and Secretary of
    War.
      Section 1122, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 24, 39 Stat. 553,
    related to supervision of auditor's office by Governor General.
      Section 1123, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 25, 39 Stat. 554,
    related to appeals from auditor's decisions.
      Section 1124, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 29, 39 Stat. 556,
    related to salaries of officials.
      Section 1125, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 30, 39 Stat. 556,
    related to compensation of municipal officers out of provincial and
    municipal revenues.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1141 to 1156                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1141 to 1156. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1141 to 1156 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1141, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 76, 32 Stat. 710,
    related to establishment of a mint at Manila.
      Section 1142, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 1, 32 Stat. 952,
    related to establishment of gold peso as unit of value.
      Section 1143, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Secs. 2, 3, 32 Stat.
    953, related to coinage of silver pesos.
      Section 1144, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 77, 32 Stat. 710;
    Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 4, 32 Stat. 953, related to coinage of
    subsidiary silver coins.
      Section 1145, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 5, 32 Stat. 953,
    related to limitations on subsidiary coins as legal tender.
      Section 1146, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 79, 32 Stat. 710,
    related to coinage of minor coins.
      Section 1147, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 82, 32 Stat. 711;
    Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 11, 32 Stat. 954, related to devices
    and inscriptions on coins.
      Section 1148, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 81, 32 Stat. 710;
    Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 10, 32 Stat. 954, related to place of
    coinage.
      Section 1149, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 5, 32 Stat. 953,
    related to purchase of silver bullion and recoinage.
      Section 1150, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 80, 32 Stat. 710;
    Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 9, 32 Stat. 954, related to purchase of
    metal.
      Section 1151, acts Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 6, 32 Stat. 953;
    July 21, 1921, ch. 51, 42 Stat. 146, related to gold and silver
    peso parity.
      Section 1152, act June 23, 1906, ch. 3521, Sec. 1, 34 Stat. 453,
    related to change in weight and fineness of silver coins.
      Section 1153, acts Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 8, 32 Stat. 954;
    Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 10, 33 Stat. 697; June 23, 1906, ch.
    3521, Sec. 2, 34 Stat. 453, related to redemption of silver
    certificates.
      Section 1154, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 12, 32 Stat. 954,
    related to drawings, designs, and plates.
      Section 1155, act Mar. 2, 1903, ch. 980, Sec. 7, 32 Stat. 954,
    related to previously used silver coins as legal tender.
      Section 1156, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 83, 32 Stat. 711,
    related to redemption and reissue of defective coins.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1157                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1157. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts June 11, 1934, ch. 445, 48 Stat. 929; Aug. 7, 1946,
    ch. 809, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 901, which related to deposits of public
    money in the United States Treasury, and which had been transferred
    to section 1333 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse,
    terminated on July 1, 1951, under the provisions of section 2 of
    act Aug. 7, 1946.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1171 to 1173                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1171 to 1173. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1171 to 1173 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1171, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 28, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to granting of franchises and rights and compensation for
    property taken or damaged.
      Section 1172, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 28, 39 Stat. 555,
    related to involuntary servitude and penalties therefor.
      Section 1173, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 75, 32 Stat. 709,
    related to corporation engaged in real estate business.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1191 to 1202                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1191 to 1202. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1191 to 1202 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1191, acts Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 11, 39 Stat. 548;
    July 21, 1921, ch. 51, 42 Stat. 145; May 31, 1922, ch. 203, 42
    Stat. 599, related to bond issues to anticipate taxes and revenue.
      Section 1192, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 2, 33 Stat. 689,
    related to bond issues for public improvements.
      Section 1193, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 689,
    related to government bonds as exempt from taxation.
      Section 1194, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 66, 32 Stat. 707;
    Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 3, 33 Stat. 690, related to municipal
    indebtedness for improvements.
      Section 1195, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 67, 32 Stat. 707,
    related to denominations of bonds.
      Section 1196, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 68, 32 Stat. 708,
    related to use of funds from sale of bonds.
      Section 1197, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 69, 32 Stat. 708,
    related to taxes to pay bonds and creation of a sinking fund.
      Section 1198, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Secs. 70, 71, 32 Stat.
    708, related to bonds for sewers and water supply in Manila.
      Section 1199, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 72, 32 Stat. 708,
    related to use of funds from sale of bonds for sewers and water
    supply in Manila.
      Section 1200, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 73, 32 Stat. 708,
    related to taxes and sinking fund for payment of bonds for sewers
    and water supply in Manila.
      Section 1201, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 690,
    related to guarantee of railroad bonds and the contract of
    guaranty.
      Section 1202, act Feb. 6, 1905, ch. 453, Sec. 4, 33 Stat. 690,
    related to jurisdiction of Supreme Court of Philippines over
    actions brought under section 1201 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1221 to 1226                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1221 to 1226. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1221 to 1226 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1221, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 9, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to restoration of public property and lands ceded to United
    States by Spain to the Philippine Legislature.
      Section 1222, act Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 9, 39 Stat. 547,
    related to approval by President of acts regulating public domain,
    mining, and timber.
      Section 1223, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 14, 32 Stat. 696;
    Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Sec. 12, 39 Stat. 548, related to
    perfecting titles of claimants from Spain.
      Section 1224, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 63, 32 Stat. 706,
    related to authority of Government to acquire real and personal
    property.
      Section 1225, acts July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 64, 32 Stat. 706;
    Aug. 29, 1916, ch. 416, Secs. 12, 22, 39 Stat. 548, 553, related to
    acquisition of property of religious orders.
      Section 1226, act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 65, 32 Stat. 707,
    related to use of lands acquired from religious orders as public
    property.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1231 to 1234                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1231 to 1234. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1231 to 1234 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1231, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 761;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 456, related to a
    convention to frame a constitution for Philippines. Section 1 of
    act Jan. 17, 1933, was repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept.
    6, 1966, 80 Stat. 648.
      Section 1232, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 10, 47 Stat. 768;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 457; Proc. No. 2695, eff.
    July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7515, 60 Stat. 1352, related to mandatory
    provisions of constitution.
      Section 1233, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 763;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 458, related to submission
    of proposed constitution to President of United States.
      Section 1234, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 763;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 458, related to submission
    of constitution to Filipino people.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1235 to 1236                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1235 to 1236. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1235, act Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 5, 48 Stat. 459,
    related to transfer of property and rights to Philippine
    Commonwealth, and was transferred to section 1391 of Title 22,
    Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
      Section 1235a, act June 29, 1944, ch. 322, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 626,
    related to acquisition of military and naval bases by United
    States, and has been transferred to section 1392 of Title 22.
      Section 1236, acts Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 6, 48 Stat. 459;
    Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 502, Sec. 1, 53 Stat. 1226; Apr. 30, 1946, ch.
    244, title V, Sec. 511(2), 60 Stat. 158; Sept. 22, 1959, Pub. L. 86-
    346, title I, Sec. 104(1), 73 Stat. 622, related to supplementary
    sinking fund for bond payments, purchase of bonds by United States,
    and creation of special trust account, and has been transferred to
    section 1393 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1236a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1236a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act June 14, 1935, ch. 240, Secs. 1-5, 49 Stat. 340,
    which fixed the quantity of Manila and other fibre products,
    produced in the Philippine Islands, to be admitted into the United
    States duty free, by its own terms originally expired three years
    from May 1, 1935. By Proc. No. 2272, eff. Jan. 26, 1938, 3 F.R.
    222, 52 Stat. 1534, the effective period was extended for an
    additional three years from and including May 1, 1938.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1236b to 1237c                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1236b to 1237c. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1236b to 1237c were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1236b, act Dec. 22, 1941, ch. 617, Sec. 1, 55 Stat. 352,
    related to export tax rate and temporary suspension.
      Section 1236c, act Dec. 22, 1941, ch. 617, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 852,
    related to reduction of export quotas and temporary suspension.
      Section 1237, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 7, 47 Stat. 765;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 7, 48 Stat. 460, related to government
    relations and appointment and duties of the High Commissioner to
    the Philippines.
      Section 1237a, acts Mar. 21, 1935, ch. 36, title I, 49 Stat. 59;
    May 15, 1936, ch. 404, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1306; July 19, 1937, ch.
    511, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 516; June 11, 1938, ch. 348, Sec. 1, 52 Stat.
    669; June 28, 1939, ch. 246, Sec. 1, 53 Stat. 858; June 18, 1940,
    ch. 395, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 410; June 28, 1941, ch. 259, Sec. 1, 55
    Stat. 309; July 2, 1942, ch. 473, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 510; July 12,
    1943, ch. 219, Sec. 1, 57 Stat. 454, related to salaries of legal
    advisor and financial expert.
      Section 1237b, act June 5, 1936, ch. 519, 49 Stat. 1478, related
    to appointment powers, and duties of the acting High Commissioner,
    and was repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
    Stat. 649.
      Section 1237c, act Aug. 11, 1937, ch. 581, Secs. 1-3, 50 Stat.
    621, 622, related to authorization to Chief Clerk and Assistant
    Chief Clerk of High Commissioner to administer oaths.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1238                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1238. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1238. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, Sec.
      403(a)(35), 66 Stat. 279.
      Section, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 8, 47 Stat. 767; Mar.
    24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 8, 48 Stat. 462; Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 502, Sec.
    2, 53 Stat. 1230, related to immigration. See section 1151 et seq.
    of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1238a, 1239                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1238a, 1239. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1238a and 1239 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1238a, act Aug. 7, 1939, ch. 502, Sec. 8, 53 Stat. 1234,
    related to assignment of Foreign Service Officers to Philippines.
      Section 1239, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 9, 47 Stat. 768;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 9, 48 Stat. 463, related to obligation
    of United States as to Philippine bonds and exemption of bonds from
    taxation.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1240                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1240. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 10, 48 Stat. 463; Aug.
    7, 1939, ch. 502, Sec. 3, 53 Stat. 1230, related to recognition of
    Philippine independence, withdrawal of American sovereignty, and
    property for diplomatic purposes, and was transferred to section
    1394 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1241 to 1243                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1241 to 1243. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1241 to 1243 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1241, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 11, 47 Stat. 769;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 11; 48 Stat. 463, related to
    neutralization of the Philippines.
      Section 1242, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 12, 47 Stat. 769;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 12, 48 Stat. 463, related to
    notification to foreign governments of Philippine Independence.
      Section 1243, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 13, 47 Stat. 769;
    Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 13, 48 Stat. 464; Aug. 7, 1939, ch.
    502, Sec. 4, 53 Stat. 1231; June 29, 1944, ch. 323, Sec. 1, 58
    Stat. 626; Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 511(3), 60 Stat.
    158, related to establishment of Filipino Rehabilitation
    Commission.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1244                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1244. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1244. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV, Sec.
      403(a)(35), 66 Stat. 279.
      Section, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 14, 47 Stat. 769; Mar.
    24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 14, 48 Stat. 464, related to immigration
    after independence. See section 1151 et seq. of Title 8, Aliens and
    Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1245                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1245. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 15, 47 Stat. 769; Mar.
    24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 15, 48 Stat. 464, related to statutes
    continued in force, and was omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1246                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1246. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 16, 48 Stat. 464, was a
    saving clause, and has been transferred to a Separability note set
    out under section 1391 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and
    Intercourse.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1247                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1247. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Jan. 17, 1933, ch. 11, Sec. 17, 47 Stat. 770; Mar.
    24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 17, 48 Stat. 465, related to effective date,
    and was omitted in view of recognition of Philippine independence.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1247a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1247a. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 18, as added Aug. 7,
    1939, ch. 502, Sec. 5, 53 Stat. 1231, related to definitions, and
    has been transferred to section 1395 of Title 22, Foreign Relations
    and Intercourse.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1248, 1249                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1248, 1249. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1248 and 1249 were omitted in view of recognition of
    Philippine independence.
      Section 1248, act Mar. 24, 1934, ch. 84, Sec. 19, as added Aug.
    7, 1939, ch. 502, Sec. 6, 53 Stat. 1232, related to disposition of
    tax proceeds.
      Section 1249, act Nov. 8, 1945, ch. 454, 59 Stat. 577, related to
    disposition of excise tax proceeds into general funds of Philippine
    Treasury.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1251 to 1257                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1251 to 1257. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1251 to 1257. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, title IV,
      Sec. 403(a)(38), 66 Stat. 280.
      Section 1251, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 478;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 1, 53 Stat. 1133; 1940 Reorg. Plan No.
    V, Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, 54 Stat. 1238, related
    to return of native Filipinos residing in the United States to the
    Philippines.
      Section 1252, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 478;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 2, 53 Stat. 1133; 1940 Reorg. Plan No.
    V, Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, 54 Stat. 1238, related
    to contracts for transportation.
      Section 1253, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 478;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 3, 53 Stat. 1133; 1940 Reorg. Plan No.
    V, Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, 54 Stat. 1238, related
    to rules and regulations.
      Section 1254, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 4, 49 Stat. 479;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 330, Sec. 4, 53 Stat. 1134, related to returning
    to the United States.
      Section 1255, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 5, 49 Stat. 479;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 53 Stat. 1134; 1940 Reorg. Plan No.
    V, Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, 54 Stat. 1238, related
    to authorization of appropriations.
      Section 1256, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 6, 49 Stat. 479;
    June 4, 1936, ch. 497, 49 Stat. 1462; May 14, 1937, ch. 184, 50
    Stat. 165; July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 6, 53 Stat. 1134; 1940
    Reorg. Plan No. V, Sec. 1, eff. June 14, 1940, 5 F.R. 2223, 54
    Stat. 1238, related to a time limit for applications.
      Section 1257, acts July 10, 1935, ch. 376, Sec. 7, 49 Stat. 479;
    July 27, 1939, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 53 Stat. 1134, related to
    deportation.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1261 to 1264                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1261 to 1264. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1261 to 1264 of this title were transferred to section
    1251 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and
    were subsequently omitted from the Code.
      Section 1261, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 201, 60
    Stat. 143, related to free entry of Philippine articles, and was
    transferred to section 1251 of Title 22.
      Section 1261a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 202, 60
    Stat. 143, related to ordinary customs duties on Philippine
    articles, and was transferred to section 1252 of Title 22.
      Section 1261b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 203, 60
    Stat. 144, related to customs duties other than ordinary, and was
    transferred to section 1253 of Title 22.
      Section 1261c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 204, 60
    Stat. 144, related to equality in special import duties, and was
    transferred to section 1254 of Title 22.
      Section 1261d, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 205, 60
    Stat. 144, related to equality in duties on products of
    Philippines, and was transferred to section 1255 of Title 22.
      Section 1262, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 211, 60
    Stat. 144, related to absolute quota on sugars, and was transferred
    to section 1261 of Title 22.
      Section 1262a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 212, 60
    Stat. 145, related to absolute quota on cordage, and was
    transferred to section 1262 of Title 22.
      Section 1262b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 213, 60
    Stat. 145, related to absolute quota on rice, and was transferred
    to section 1263 of Title 22.
      Section 1262c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 214, 60
    Stat. 146, related to absolute and duty free quotas on certain
    articles, and was transferred to section 1264 of Title 22.
      Section 1262d, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 215, 60
    Stat. 147, related to laws putting into effect allocations of
    quotas, and was transferred to section 1265 of Title 22.
      Section 1262e, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 216, 60
    Stat. 147, related to transfers and assignments of quota
    allocations, and was transferred to section 1266 of Title 22.
      Section 1263, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 221, 60
    Stat. 147, related to equality in internal taxes, and was
    transferred to section 1271 of Title 22.
      Section 1263a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 222, 60
    Stat. 148, related to exemption from tax of manila fiber, and was
    transferred to section 1272 of Title 22.
      Section 1263b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 223, 60
    Stat. 148, related to prohibition of export taxes, and was
    transferred to section 1273 of Title 22.
      Section 1263c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 224, 60
    Stat. 148, related to exemption from taxes of articles of official
    use, and was transferred to section 1274 of Title 22.
      Section 1264, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title II, Sec. 231, 60
    Stat. 148, related to certain Philippine citizens granted non-quota
    status, and was transferred to section 1281 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1266 to 1270b                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1266 to 1270b. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1266 to 1270b of this title were transferred to section
    1291 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and
    were subsequently omitted from the Code.
      Section 1266, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 301, 60
    Stat. 148, related to a statement of purposes for title III of act
    Apr. 30, 1946, and was transferred to section 1291 of Title 22.
      Section 1267, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 311, 60
    Stat. 149, related to free entry of United States articles, and was
    transferred to section 1301 of Title 22.
      Section 1267a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 312,
    60 Stat. 149, related to ordinary customs duties on United States
    articles, and was transferred to section 1302 of Title 22.
      Section 1267b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 313,
    60 Stat. 149, related to customs duties other than ordinary, and
    was transferred to section 1303 of Title 22.
      Section 1267c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 314,
    60 Stat. 150, related to equality in special import duties, and was
    transferred to section 1304 of Title 22.
      Section 1267d, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 315,
    60 Stat. 150, related to equality in duties on products of the
    United States, and was transferred to section 1305 of Title 22.
      Section 1268, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 321, 60
    Stat. 150, related to equality in internal taxes, and was
    transferred to section 1311 of Title 22.
      Section 1268a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 322,
    60 Stat. 150, related to prohibition of export taxes, and was
    transferred to section 1312 of Title 22.
      Section 1268b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 323,
    60 Stat. 150, related to exemption from taxes of articles for
    official use, and was transferred to section 1313 of Title 22.
      Section 1269, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 331, 60
    Stat. 151, related to certain United States citizens given non-
    quota status, and was transferred to section 1321 of Title 22.
      Section 1269a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 332,
    60 Stat. 151, related to immigration of United States citizens into
    the Philippines, and was transferred to section 1322 of Title 22.
      Section 1270, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 341, 60
    Stat. 151, related to rights of U.S. citizens and businesses in
    natural resources, and was transferred to section 1331 of Title 22.
      Section 1270a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 342,
    60 Stat. 151, related to currency stabilization, and was
    transferred to section 1332 of Title 22.
      Section 1270b, act Apr. 30. 1946, ch. 244, title III, Sec. 343,
    60 Stat. 151, related to allocation of quotas, and was transferred
    to section 1334 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1272 to 1272g                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1272 to 1272g. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1272 to 1272g of this title were transferred to section
    1341 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and
    were subsequently omitted from the Code.
      Section 1272, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 401, 60
    Stat. 151, related to authorization of an executive agreement
    between the Philippines and the United States, and was transferred
    to section 1341 of Title 22.
      Section 1272a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 402, 60
    Stat. 152, related to obligations of the Philippines, and was
    transferred to section 1342 of Title 22.
      Section 1272b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 403, 60
    Stat. 153, related to obligations of the United States, and was
    transferred to section 1343 of Title 22.
      Section 1272c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 404, 60
    Stat. 153, related to termination of agreement, and was transferred
    to section 1344 of Title 22.
      Section 1272d, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 405, 60
    Stat. 154, related to effect of termination of agreement, and was
    transferred to section 1345 of Title 22.
      Section 1272e, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 406, 60
    Stat. 154, related to interpretation of agreement, and was
    transferred to section 1346 of Title 22.
      Section 1272f, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 407, 60
    Stat. 154, related to termination of authority to make agreement,
    and was transferred to section 1347 of Title 22.
      Section 1272g, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title IV, Sec. 408, 60
    Stat. 154, related to effective date of agreement, and was
    transferred to section 1348 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1274 to 1274i                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1274 to 1274i. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1274 to 1274i of this title were transferred to section
    1351 et seq. of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse, and
    were subsequently omitted from the Code.
      Section 1274, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 501, 60
    Stat. 155, related to suspension and termination of agreement in
    case of discrimination, and was transferred to section 1351 of
    Title 22.
      Section 1274a, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 502, 60
    Stat. 155, related to suspension of title I of act Apr. 30, 1946,
    and was transferred to section 1352 of Title 22.
      Section 1274b, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 503, 60
    Stat. 156, related to customs duties on importations from
    Philippines, and was transferred to section 1353 of Title 22.
      Section 1274c, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 504, 60
    Stat. 156, related to quotas on Philippine articles, and was
    transferred to section 1354 of Title 22.
      Section 1274d, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 505(b),
    60 Stat. 157, related to suspension of processing tax on coconut
    oil, and was transferred to section 1355 of Title 22.
      Section 1274e, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 506(a),
    60 Stat. 157, related to termination of payments into Philippine
    treasury, and was transferred to section 1356 of Title 22.
      Section 1274f, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 508, 60
    Stat. 158, related to trade agreements with the Philippines, and
    was transferred to section 1357 of Title 22.
      Section 1274g, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 509, 60
    Stat. 158, related to rights of third countries, and was
    transferred to section 1358 of Title 22.
      Section 1274h, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title V, Sec. 510, 60
    Stat. 158, related to administration of title I of act Apr. 30,
    1946, and was transferred to section 1359 of Title 22.
      Section 1274i, act Apr. 30, 1946, ch. 244, title I, Sec. 2, 60
    Stat. 141, related to definitions of terms used in act Apr. 30,
    1946, and was transferred to section 1360 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1276 to 1276e                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 5 - PHILIPPINE ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1276 to 1276e. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1276, act July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 2, 60 Stat. 418,
    related to retention by United States of title to real and personal
    property, and was transferred to section 1381 of Title 22, Foreign
    Relations and Intercourse.
      Section 1276a, acts July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 3, 60 Stat. 418;
    Dec. 21, 1950, ch. 1144, 64 Stat. 1116, related to administration
    of trading with the enemy provisions in the Philippines, and was
    transferred to section 1382 of Title 22.
      Section 1276b, act July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 4, 60 Stat. 419,
    related to transfer of property by the President of the United
    States, and was transferred to section 1383 of Title 22.
      Section 1276c, act July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 5, 60 Stat. 419,
    related to transfer of shares of corporations owning agricultural
    lands, and was transferred to section 1384 of Title 22.
      Section 1276d, act July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 6, 60 Stat. 419,
    related to ownership of naval reservations, diplomatic property
    etc., and was transferred to section 1385 of Title 22.
      Section 1276e, act July 3, 1946, ch. 536, Sec. 7, 60 Stat. 420,
    related to defining terms for purposes of act July 3, 1946, and was
    transferred to section 1386 of Title 22.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE                               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
                          CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE                      


-MISC1-
                              CANAL ZONE CODE                          
      Pub. L. 104-201, div. C, title XXXV, Sec. 3549, Sept. 23, 1996,
    110 Stat. 2870, repealed the Panama Canal Code.
      Pub. L. 96-70, title III, Sec. 3303(b), Sept. 27, 1979, 93 Stat.
    499, redesignated the Canal Zone Code as the Panama Canal Code. See
    References to Canal Zone Code Deemed References to Panama Canal
    Code note under section 3602 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and
    Intercourse.
      Pub. L. 87-845, Oct. 18, 1962, 76A Stat. 1, revised and codified
    into the "Canal Zone Code" all the general and permanent laws
    relating to and in force in the Canal Zone as of Oct. 18, 1962,
    other than the general laws of the United States relating to or
    applying in the Canal Zone.
      Act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, 48 Stat. 1122, enacted the "Canal
    Zone Code" to establish conclusively and be deemed to embrace all
    the permanent laws relating to or applying in the Canal Zone in
    force on date of enactment of the Code.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1301 to 1304                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1301 to 1304. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1301 to 1304 were omitted as not of general application
    and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone Code was
    subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L. 96-70,
    Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1301, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 14, 37 Stat. 569;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to short
    title.
      Section 1302, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 1, 37 Stat. 560;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to
    establishment of Canal Zone.
      Section 1303, acts Feb. 27, 1909, ch. 224, Sec. 4, 35 Stat. 658;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to a land
    survey of Canal Zone.
      Section 1304, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 3, 37 Stat. 561;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to
    acquisition of lands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1304a to 1304c                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1304a to 1304c. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1304a to 1304c. Repealed. Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 415, Sec. 9(c),
      63 Stat. 597.
      Section 1304a, act May 3, 1932, ch. 162, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 145,
    related to modification of boundary line.
      Section 1304b, act May 3, 1932, ch. 162, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 146,
    related to effect of modification on title to detached lands.
      Section 1304c, act May 3, 1932, ch. 162, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 146,
    related to effect of modification on pending civil or criminal
    cases.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1305 to 1314                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1305 to 1314. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1305 to 1314a were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1305, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 561;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122; July 9, 1937, ch.
    470, Sec. 3, 50 Stat. 487; Oct. 15, 1949, ch. 695, Sec. 5(a), 63
    Stat. 880; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Secs. 1, 2(a), 64 Stat. 1038,
    related to establishment, administration, and functions of Canal
    Zone Government.
      Section 1305-1, act Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a), (b), 64
    Stat. 1038, related to changes in names of terms "the Panama
    Canal", "the Canal", and "the Canal authorities" to "the Canal Zone
    Government" and "the Panama Railroad Company" to "the Panama Canal
    Company".
      Section 1305a, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 561;
    Mar. 12, 1928, ch. 213, 45 Stat. 310; June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec.
    1, 48 Stat. 1122; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 4, 64 Stat. 1040,
    related to compensation of persons in military, naval, or public
    health service.
      Section 1305b, acts June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat.
    1122; Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 602; Sept. 26, 1950,
    ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), (b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to special
    training of employees.
      Section 1305c, acts June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat.
    1122; Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 601; Sept. 26, 1950,
    ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), (b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to artificial
    limbs and appliances for employees injured prior to Sept. 7, 1916.
      Section 1306, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 13, 37 Stat. 569;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to Army
    control in time of war or emergency.
      Section 1307, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 564;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 1004; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 814; June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat.
    1122; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(e), 64 Stat. 1038, related
    to jurisdiction of the Governor.
      Section 1308, acts Feb. 27, 1909, ch. 224, Secs. 1-3, 5, 35 Stat.
    658; June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to
    lease of public lands.
      Section 1309, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 2, 37 Stat. 561,
    related to continuation of early laws and regulations.
      Section 1310, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 527;
    Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 92, 47 Stat. 818; June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec.
    1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to sanitary regulations.
      Section 1311, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 2, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to tax
    regulations.
      Section 1311a, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to penalties
    for tax violations.
      Section 1312, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to highway
    regulations.
      Section 1312a, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122; July 10, 1937, ch.
    487, Sec. 2, 50 Stat. 510, related to violations of highway
    regulations.
      Section 1313, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 4, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to police
    regulations.
      Section 1314, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 528;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to violation
    of regulations generally.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1314a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1314a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1314a. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962,
      76A Stat. 701.
      Section, act July 9, 1937, ch. 470, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 486, related
    to air regulations.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1314b to 1314e                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1314b to 1314e. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1314b to 1314e. Repealed. Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 415, Sec. 9(d),
      63 Stat. 597.
      Section 1314b, act June 19, 1934, ch. 657, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1116,
    related to intoxicating liquors in the Canal Zone.
      Section 1314c, act June 19, 1934, ch. 657, Sec. 2, 48 Stat. 1116,
    related to penalties for violations of intoxicating liquor
    regulations.
      Section 1314d, act June 19, 1934, ch. 657, Sec. 3, 48 Stat. 1116,
    related to repeal of prior laws.
      Section 1314e, act June 19, 1934, ch. 657, Sec. 4, 48 Stat. 1116,
    related to effective date.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1314f to 1315a                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1314f to 1315a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1314f to 1315a were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1314f, act Oct. 1, 1942, ch. 574, 56 Stat. 763, related
    to prohibition of production, possession, and disposition of
    marihuana.
      Section 1314g, act Oct. 1, 1942, ch. 574, 56 Stat. 763, related
    to defining terms for purposes of act Oct. 1, 1942.
      Section 1314h, acts Oct. 1, 1942, ch. 574, 56 Stat. 763; Sept.
    26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to licenses
    for certain marihuana uses.
      Section 1314i, act Oct. 1, 1942, ch. 574, 56 Stat. 763, related
    to violations, punishment, and confiscation.
      Section 1315, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 562;
    June 15, 1914, ch. 106, Sec. 1, 2, 38 Stat. 385, 386; Aug. 24,
    1937, ch. 752, 50 Stat. 750; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 11, 64
    Stat. 1042, related to tolls generally.
      Section 1315a, act Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 12, 64 Stat.
    1042, related to bases of tolls.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1316                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1316. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1316. Repealed. Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 13(3), 64 Stat.
      1043.
      Section, act June 12, 1917, ch. 27, Sec. 1, 40 Stat. 179, related
    to refund of excessive tolls.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1317 to 1319                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1317 to 1319. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1317 to 1319 were omitted as not of general application,
    and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone Code was
    subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L. 96-70,
    Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1317, acts June 15, 1914, ch. 106, Sec. 2, 38 Stat. 386;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to
    reservation of right to discriminate in favor of American vessels.
      Section 1318, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 562;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 10, 42 Stat. 1008; July 5, 1932, ch.
    425, 47 Stat. 578; June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122,
    related to regulations governing the operation of the Canal.
      Section 1319, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 562;
    June 15, 1914, ch. 106, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 385; June 19, 1934, ch.
    667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122; June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 1, 54
    Stat. 387; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 1039, related
    to injuries to vessels, cargo, crew, or passengers in operation of
    Canal.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1320                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1320. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1320. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 642.
      Section, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 5, 37 Stat. 562,
    related to injuries to employees.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1321, 1322                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1321, 1322. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1321 and 1322 were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1321, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 10, 39 Stat. 529;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to passage
    of persons through the Canal Zone.
      Section 1322, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, 39 Stat. 529; June 19,
    1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122, related to injury to Canal
    and appurtenances.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1323 to 1323-3                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1323 to 1323-3. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1323 to 1323-3. Repealed. Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec.
      13(2), 64 Stat. 1043.
      Section 1323, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 6, 37 Stat. 563;
    Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 601, related to
    establishment and operation of various facilities.
      Section 1323-1, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 6, 37 Stat.
    563; Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 601, related to
    organization and conduct of facilities as business operations.
      Section 1323-2, act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 53, as added
    Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 601, related to receipts,
    sales, and services.
      Section 1323-3, act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 54, as added
    Aug. 12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 601, related to exemption
    of operations of postal service.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 89, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 812; June
    13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 389; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049,
    Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to postal service generally and
    was omitted as not of general application, and as covered by the
    Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone Code was subsequently redesignated
    the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L. 96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed
    by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1323b. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962,
      76A Stat. 701.
      Section, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to postal-savings deposits.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323c. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 6, 39 Stat. 528; Sept.
    21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 11, 42 Stat. 1008; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 89,
    Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 812; June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to interest rate on postal-savings certificates and was
    omitted as not of general application, and as covered by the Canal
    Zone Code. The Canal Zone Code was subsequently redesignated the
    Panama Canal Code by Pub. L. 96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by
    Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1323d to 1323h                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1323d to 1323h. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1323d to 1323h. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct.
      18, 1962, 76A Stat. 701.
      Section 1323d, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to faith of United States pledged to payment of deposits.
      Section 1323e, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to control of money-order and postal-savings funds.
      Section 1323f, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to deposit of money-order and postal-savings funds in
    United States treasury.
      Section 1323g, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to deposit of money-order and postal-savings funds in
    banks.
      Section 1323h, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to investment of money-order and postal-savings funds in
    securities of the United States.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323i                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323i. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 528; Feb.
    16, 1933, ch. 89, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 812; June 13, 1940, ch. 358,
    Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389, related to use of interest and profits on
    money-order and postal-savings funds and was omitted as not of
    general application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The
    Canal Zone Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code
    by Pub. L. 96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201,
    Sec. 3549.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323j                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323j. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1323j. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962,
      76A Stat. 701.
      Section, act June 13, 1940, ch. 358, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 389,
    related to deposit money orders.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1323k                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1323k. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 89, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 813, related
    to repeal of prior postal laws and was omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1324, 1325                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1324, 1325. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1324, 1325. Repealed. Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 89, Sec. 4, 47 Stat.
      812.
      Section 1324, acts Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 6, 39 Stat. 528;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 11, 42 Stat. 1008, related to
    interest on deposit money orders.
      Section 1325, act Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 7, 39 Stat. 528,
    related to use of interest on money-order funds.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1325a to 1327                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1325a to 1327. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1325a to 1327 were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1325a, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 90, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 813;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    rules and regulations of the Customs Service.
      Section 1325b, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 90, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 813,
    related to powers of search, seizure, and arrest of customs
    officers.
      Section 1325c, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 90, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 813;
    July 10, 1937, ch. 487, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 509, related to unlawful
    entry or importation.
      Section 1325d, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 90, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 813,
    related to unmanifested merchandise.
      Section 1325e, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 90, Sec. 5, 47 Stat. 814,
    related to unlisted sea stores.
      Section 1326, act Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 8, 39 Stat. 528,
    related to fees of customs officers.
      Section 1327, act Aug. 1, 1914, ch. 223, Sec. 4, 38 Stat. 679,
    related to accounting by collection officers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1328, 1329                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1328, 1329. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1328, 1329. Repealed. Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 13(1),
      64 Stat. 1043.
      Section 1328, acts Aug. 1, 1914, ch. 223, Sec. 5, 38 Stat. 679;
    June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Secs. 301, 304, 42 Stat. 23, 24, related to
    accounting by collecting officers.
      Section 1329, acts Mar. 3, 1915, ch. 75, Sec. 3, 38 Stat. 886;
    June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Secs. 301, 304, 42 Stat. 23, 24, related to
    examination of accounts.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1330 to 1336h                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1330 to 1336h. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1330 to 1336h were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1330, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, 12, 37 Stat. 569,
    related to extradition of fugitives.
      Section 1330-1, act Dec. 16, 1941, ch. 580, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 802,
    related to extradition to and from the United States.
      Section 1330a, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 574,
    related to extradition to Republic of Panama.
      Section 1330b, acts July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 574;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    extradition to the Republic of Panama where fugitive a citizen of
    United States.
      Section 1330c, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 574,
    related to fugitives accused of crime in the Canal Zone.
      Section 1330d, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 574,
    related to prosecution for offense other than one extradited for.
      Section 1330e, acts July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 5, 47 Stat. 575;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    written demand for arrest and delivery of fugitive.
      Section 1330f, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 6, 47 Stat. 575,
    related to detention on telegraphic request.
      Section 1330g, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 7, 47 Stat. 575,
    related to entry of extradition agents of the Republic of Panama
    into Canal Zone to receive fugitives.
      Section 1330h, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 8, 47 Stat. 575,
    related to authority of extradition agents of the Republic of
    Panama in Canal Zone.
      Section 1330i, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 9, 47 Stat. 575,
    related to papers and objects in possession of the fugitive.
      Section 1330j, act July 5, 1932, ch. 419, Sec. 10, 47 Stat. 575,
    related to payment of capture expenses.
      Section 1331, act Aug. 21, 1916, ch. 371, Sec. 9, 39 Stat. 529,
    related to laws governing American seamen in Zone.
      Section 1332, act Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 355, Sec. 4, 37 Stat. 486,
    related to payments for Toro Point Light.
      Section 1333, acts Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 285, Sec. 2, 36 Stat. 1451;
    July 10, 1937, ch. 487, Sec. 10, 50 Stat. 511; Sept. 26, 1950, ch.
    1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to carrying of insurance
    by the Panama Canal Company.
      Section 1334, acts June 25, 1910, ch. 384, Sec. 2, 36 Stat. 772;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1048, related to
    subsidy payments by Panama Canal Company.
      Section 1335, acts Mar. 4, 1911, ch. 285, Sec. 6, 36 Stat. 1452;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1048, related to
    bonds by Panama Canal Company.
      Section 1336, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 564;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 1004; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 1038, related to notaries public.
      Section 1336a, acts June 30, 1932, ch. 314, Secs. 501, 502, 47
    Stat. 415; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 811, related to
    rules and regulations of steamboat inspection.
      Section 1336b, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 811,
    related to inspection of foreign vessels.
      Section 1336c, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 811;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    certificate of inspection.
      Section 1336d, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 4, 47 Stat. 811,
    related to refusal of certificate.
      Section 1336e, acts June 30, 1932, ch. 314, Sec. 501, 47 Stat.
    415; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 5, 47 Stat. 811; May 27, 1936, ch.
    463, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1380; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, (2)(a), (1),
    64 Stat. 1038, related to navigating waters without lawful
    certificate.
      Section 1336f, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 6, 47 Stat. 811;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    revocation of certificate.
      Section 1336g, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 7, 47 Stat. 812;
    June 24, 1936, ch. 754, Sec. 8, 49 Stat. 1905; Sept. 26, 1950, ch.
    1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), 64 Stat. 1038, related to registration of small
    vessels propelled by machinery.
      Section 1336h, acts Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 8, 47 Stat. 812;
    June 24, 1936, ch. 754, Sec. 9, 49 Stat. 1906, related to
    registration of small vessels not propelled by machinery.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1336i                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1336i. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1336i. Repealed. June 24, 1936, ch. 754, Sec. 10, 49 Stat.
      1906.
      Section, act Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 88, Sec. 9, 47 Stat. 812, related
    to small vessels carrying passengers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1336j, 1336k                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1336j, 1336k. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1336j and 1336k were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1336j, act July 5, 1932, ch. 421, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 576,
    related to equipment on ocean-going vessels using ports of Canal
    Zone.
      Section 1336k, act July 5, 1932, ch. 421, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 576,
    related to jurisdiction of violations.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1337                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1337. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1337. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962, 76A
      Stat. 701.
      Section, acts Dec. 12, 1941, ch. 569, 55 Stat. 798; Sept. 26,
    1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), (b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    photographic regulations.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1337a to 1337c                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1337a to 1337c. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1337a to 1337c were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1337a, act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 16, as added Aug.
    12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 600, and amended Sept. 26,
    1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to acquisition or
    construction of structures, equipment, and improvements.
      Section 1337b, act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 17, as added Aug.
    12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 600, and amended Sept. 26,
    1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to claims for
    losses of or damage to property.
      Section 1337c, act June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 18, as added Aug.
    12, 1949, ch. 422, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 600, and amended Sept. 26,
    1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to disaster
    relief.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1341 to 1344                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1341 to 1344. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1341 to 1344 were omitted as not of general application,
    and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone Code was
    subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L. 96-70,
    Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1341, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 564;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1004; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 814, related to determination of towns in
    Canal Zone.
      Section 1342, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 564;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 1004; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 814, related to magistrate courts.
      Section 1343, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 7, 37 Stat. 564;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 1004; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 814, related to appeals from magistrate
    courts.
      Section 1344, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 815, related to district courts generally.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1344-1                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1344-1. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1344-1. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962,
      76A Stat. 701.
      Section, act Dec. 16, 1941, ch. 580, Sec. 3, 55 Stat. 803,
    related to rules of criminal procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1344a to 1355                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1344a to 1355. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1344a to 1355 were omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.
      Section 1344a, acts Aug. 12, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 816, related to orders made when outside
    jurisdiction.
      Section 1345, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 815, related to general jurisdiction of
    district court.
      Section 1345a, act July 5, 1932, ch. 422, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 577,
    related to issuance of process.
      Section 1346, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 815, related to jurisdiction of crimes
    committed on high seas.
      Section 1347, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Dec. 29, 1926, ch.
    19, Sec. 1, 44 Stat. 924; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat.
    816; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    juries and jury trials.
      Section 1348, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 816, related to compensation of district
    judge.
      Section 1349, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, 47 Stat. 816, related to clerk of district court.
      Section 1350, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 815, related to appointment and compensation
    of special judge.
      Section 1351, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 815; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(b), 64
    Stat. 1038, related to district attorney.
      Section 1352, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Feb. 16, 1933, ch.
    91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 817, related to marshal.
      Section 1353, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 8, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 42 Stat. 1005; Dec. 29, 1926, ch.
    19, Sec. 2, 44 Stat. 924; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 91, Sec. 2, 47 Stat.
    817; Mar. 26, 1938, ch. 51, Sec. 1, 52 Stat. 118; July 1, 1944, ch.
    366, 58 Stat. 676; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 31, 67 Stat. 991,
    related to appointment of district judge, district attorney, and
    marshal.
      Section 1354, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 3, 42 Stat. 1006, related to transfer
    of causes to new courts.
      Section 1355, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 3, 42 Stat. 1006, related to
    continuance of laws defining clerks' duties.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1356                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1356. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1356. Repealed. June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 35, 62 Stat. 991.
      Section, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 565; Sept.
    21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 3, 42 Stat. 1006; Feb. 16, 1933, ch. 91,
    Sec. 3, 47 Stat. 817, related to appeals from district courts. See
    sections 1291, 1292, and 1294 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Sept. 1, 1948, see section 38 of act June 25,
    1948, set out as an Effective Date note preceding section 1 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1357, 1358                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1357, 1358. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1357, acts Aug. 24, 1912, ch. 390, Sec. 9, 37 Stat. 565;
    Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 370, Sec. 3, 42 Stat. 1006, related to blending
    of law and equity jurisdiction.
      Section 1358, act June 28, 1906, ch. 3585, 34 Stat. 552, related
    to acknowledgment of deeds and was omitted as not of general
    application, and as covered by the Canal Zone Code. The Canal Zone
    Code was subsequently redesignated the Panama Canal Code by Pub. L.
    96-70, Sec. 3303(b), and repealed by Pub. L. 104-201, Sec. 3549.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1361                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1361. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1361. Repealed. Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 13(7), 64 Stat.
      1043.
      Section, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 1075,
    related to purpose of organization of Panama Railroad Company.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1361a to 1361l                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1361a to 1361l. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1361a to 1361l. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct.
      18, 1962, 76A Stat. 701.
      Section 1361a, acts June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat.
    1076; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 5, 64 Stat. 1041, related to
    the creation of the Panama Railroad Company.
      Section 1361b, acts June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat.
    1076; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 6, 64 Stat. 1041, related to
    investment of the United States.
      Section 1361c, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to Board of Directors of corporation.
      Section 1361d, acts June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat.
    1076; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 8, 64 Stat. 1041, related to
    general powers of corporation.
      Section 1361e, acts June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat.
    1076; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 9, 64 Stat. 1049, related to
    specific powers of corporation.
      Section 1361f, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to applicability of laws.
      Section 1361g, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to transfer of assets and liabilities of corporation.
      Section 1361h, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to reimbursement of other agencies.
      Section 1361i, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to payment of excess funds into treasury.
      Section 1361j, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, 62 Stat. 1076,
    related to emergency fund.
      Section 1361k, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, as added Sept.
    26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 10, 64 Stat. 1042, related to
    authorizations of appropriations to cover losses.
      Section 1361l, act June 29, 1948, ch. 706, Sec. 2, as added Sept.
    26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 10, 64 Stat. 1042, related to
    authorization for transfer of canal to corporation.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1371 to 1371b                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1371 to 1371b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1371 to 1371b. Repealed. July 21, 1949, ch. 356, Sec. 1(b),
      63 Stat. 475.
      Section 1371, act Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 1, 46 Stat. 1471,
    related to employees entitled to retirement privileges.
      Section 1371a, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 2, 46 Stat. 1471;
    June 19, 1934, ch. 667, Sec. 1, 48 Stat. 1122; July 29, 1942, ch.
    536, Sec. 1, 56 Stat. 726, related to automatic separation.
      Section 1371b, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 3, 46 Stat. 1472;
    July 2, 1945, ch. 220, 59 Stat. 212, related to voluntary
    retirement.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Apr. 1, 1948, see section 7(a) of act July 21,
    1949.

                             ADDITIONAL REPEAL                         
      Sections were also repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept.
    6, 1966, 80 Stat. 648.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1371b-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1371b-1. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1371b-1. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966,
      80 Stat. 648.
      Section, act June 16, 1933, ch. 101, Sec. 8(b), 48 Stat. 306,
    related to involuntary separation retirement benefits.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1371c to 1371p                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1371c to 1371p. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1371c to 1371p. Repealed. July 21, 1949, ch. 356, Sec. 1(b),
      63 Stat. 475.
      Section 1371c, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 4, 46 Stat. 1472;
    Ex. Ord. No. 6670 Apr. 7, 1934; June 24, 1936, ch. 754, Sec. 2, 49
    Stat. 1904; Apr. 12, 1939, ch. 58, 53 Stat. 574; Dec. 16, 1941, ch.
    584, Sec. 2, 55 Stat. 806, related to disability retirement.
      Section 1371d, act July 29, 1942, ch. 536, Sec. 2, 56 Stat. 727,
    related to annuity on separations from service.
      Section 1371e, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 6, 46 Stat. 1474;
    Aug. 10, 1939, ch. 660, 53 Stat. 1347; Dec. 16, 1941, ch. 584, Sec.
    1, 55 Stat. 805; July 29, 1942, ch. 536, Sec. 3, 56 Stat. 727,
    related to method of computing annuities.
      Section 1371f, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 7, 46 Stat. 1476;
    Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 859, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 1117, related to
    computation of accredited service.
      Section 1371g, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 8, 46 Stat. 1476;
    Ex. Ord. No. 6670, Apr. 7, 1934, related to credit for past
    service.
      Section 1371h, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 9, 46 Stat. 1477;
    Ex. Ord. No. 6670, Apr. 7, 1934; Dec. 16, 1941, ch. 584, Sec. 2, 55
    Stat. 806, related to deductions.
      Section 1371i, act Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 10, 46 Stat. 1477,
    related to investments and accounts.
      Section 1371j, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 11, 46 Stat.
    1477; Ex. Ord. No. 6670, Apr. 7, 1934; June 24, 1936, ch. 754,
    Secs. 4 to 6, 49 Stat. 1905; Dec. 16, 1941, ch. 584, Sec. 4, 55
    Stat. 806; July 29, 1942, ch. 536, Sec. 4, 56 Stat. 728, related to
    return of amounts deducted from salaries.
      Section 1371k, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 12, 46 Stat.
    1478; Ex. Ord. No. 6670, Apr. 7, 1934; July 29, 1942, ch. 536, Sec.
    5, 56 Stat. 728, related to payment of annuities.
      Section 1371l, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 13, 46 Stat.
    1479; Aug. 10, 1937, ch. 573, 50 Stat. 619, related to benefits for
    those already retired.
      Section 1371m, acts Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 14, 46 Stat.
    1479; Ex. Ord. No. 6670, Apr. 7, 1934, related to Board of
    actuaries.
      Section 1371n, acts July 3, 1930, ch. 863, Sec. 2, 46 Stat. 1016;
    Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 15, 46 Stat. 1479; Ex. Ord. No. 6670,
    eff. Apr. 7, 1934, related to administrative provisions.
      Section 1371o, act Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 16, 46 Stat. 1480,
    related to exemption from execution.
      Section 1371p, acts July 3, 1930, ch. 863, Sec. 2, 46 Stat. 1016;
    Mar. 2, 1931, ch. 375, Sec. 17, 46 Stat. 1480; Ex. Ord. No. 6670,
    eff. Apr. 7, 1934, related to effective date of these sections.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective Apr. 1, 1948, see section 7(a) of act July 21,
    1949.

                             ADDITIONAL REPEAL                         
      Sections were also repealed by Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept.
    6, 1966, 80 Stat. 648.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1372                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1372. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1372. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-845, Sec. 26(b), Oct. 18, 1962, 76A
      Stat. 701.
      Section, acts July 8, 1937, ch. 443, Sec. 1, 50 Stat. 478; Sept.
    26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a), (b), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    relief of employee not entitled to retirement benefits.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1373 to 1374d                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1373 to 1374d. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1373, acts May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 1, 58 Stat. 257;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), (2), 64 Stat. 1038, related
    to recognition of personnel engaged in construction of the canal.
      Section 1373a, acts May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 258;
    Aug. 7, 1946, ch. 774, 60 Stat. 873; Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec.
    2(a)(1), (2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to annuity privilege of
    personnel described in section 1373 of this title.
      Section 1373b, act May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 3, 58 Stat. 258,
    related to payment of annuities of personnel described in section
    1373 of this title.
      Section 1373c, act May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 4, 58 Stat. 258,
    related to duration of annuities of personnel described in section
    1373 of this title.
      Section 1373d, acts May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 5, 58 Stat. 259;
    June 19, 1948, ch. 527, Sec. 1, 62 Stat. 497; Sept. 26, 1950, ch.
    1049, Sec. 2(a)(1), (2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to election between
    annuity or other compensation of personnel described in section
    1373 of this title.
      Section 1373e, act May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 6, 58 Stat. 259,
    related to administrative provisions for carrying out sections 1373
    to 1373g of this title.
      Section 1373f, act May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 7, 58 Stat. 259,
    related to exemption from execution, lien, or other legal process
    of moneys or annuities under sections 1373 to 1373g of this title.
      Section 1373g, act May 29, 1944, ch. 214, Sec. 8, 58 Stat. 269,
    related to annual estimates of annuity appropriations under
    sections 1373 to 1373g of this title.
      Section 1374, acts July 24, 1947, ch. 308, Sec. 1, 61 Stat. 415;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1949, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    retirement of certain Panama Canal Railroad Company employees.
      Section 1374a, acts July 24, 1947, ch. 308, Sec. 2, 61 Stat. 415;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    transfer of pension fund assets of Panama Canal Railroad Company.
      Section 1374b, acts July 24, 1947, ch. 308, Sec. 3, 61 Stat. 416;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    Panama Canal Railroad Company employees' accounts in civil service
    fund.
      Section 1374c, acts July 24, 1947, ch. 308, Sec. 4, 61 Stat. 416;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    redeposit of Panama Canal Railroad Company contribution funds.
      Section 1374d, acts July 24, 1947, ch. 308, Sec. 5, 61 Stat. 416;
    Sept. 26, 1950, ch. 1049, Sec. 2(a)(2), 64 Stat. 1038, related to
    certain Panama Canal Railroad Company employee annuities.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1381, 1382                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1381, 1382. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1381, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 1, 54 Stat. 724,
    related to setting aside Barro Colorado Island in Gatun Lake for
    scientific observation, and was transferred to section 79 of Title
    20, Education.
      Section 1382, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 2, 54 Stat. 724;
    1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, Sec. 801, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877,
    60 Stat. 1101, related to preservation of natural features of area,
    and was transferred to section 79a of Title 20.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1383                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1383. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1383. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 650.
      Section, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 3, 54 Stat. 724,
    provided for appointment and compensation of Board of Directors of
    Canal Zone Biological Area.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1384 to 1387                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 6 - CANAL ZONE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1384 to 1387. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1384, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 4, 54 Stat. 724;
    1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, Sec. 801, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877,
    60 Stat. 1101, related to functions of Smithsonian Institution, and
    was transferred to section 79b of Title 20, Education.
      Section 1385, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 5, 54 Stat. 725;
    1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, Sec. 801, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877,
    60 Stat. 1101, related to resident manager, and was transferred to
    section 79c of Title 20.
      Section 1386, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 6, 54 Stat. 725;
    1946 Reorg. Plan No. 3, Sec. 801, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877,
    60 Stat. 1101, related to deposit of receipts into treasury, and
    was transferred to section 79d of Title 20.
      Section 1387, act July 2, 1940, ch. 516, Sec. 7, 54 Stat. 725,
    related to authorization of appropriations, and was transferred to
    section 79e of Title 20.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                        CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS                    


-MISC1-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 
    Sec.                                                     
    1391.       Repealed.                                             
    1392.       Local laws continued; courts.                         
    1392a to 1393. Repealed.                                          
    1394.       Customs duties and internal-revenue taxes.            
    1395.       Tax laws continued; tax on sugar.                     
    1396.       Duties and taxes covered into Virgin Islands treasury.
    1397.       Income tax laws of United States in force; payment of
                 proceeds; levy of surtax on all taxpayers.           
    1398 to 1401f. Omitted or Repealed.                               
    1402.       Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue
                 laws to Virgin Islands.                              
    1403.       Issuance of bonds or other obligations by government
                 or municipalities; use of proceeds; limit on public
                 indebtedness; terms, execution, interest rate, and
                 sale price; taxes.                                   
    1403a.      Expenditure of bond proceeds for public improvements. 
    1403b.      Bond liability of United States.                      

                     SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT                 
    1405.       Geographical application of subchapter; land and
                 waters included in term "Virgin Islands".            
    1405a, 1405b. Repealed.                                           
    1405c.      Transfer of property to government.                   
    1405d to 1405p. Repealed.                                         
    1405q.      Laws continued in force until modified; patent, trade
                 mark, and copyright laws extended to Virgin Islands;
                 jurisdiction of district court.                      
    1405r to 1406e. Repealed or Omitted.                              
    1406f.      Judicial process; title of criminal prosecutions.     
    1406g.      Repealed.                                             
    1406h.      Taxes, duties and fees as funds for benefit of
                 municipalities; appropriations.                      
    1406i.      Taxes and fees; power to assess and collect; ports of
                 entry; export duties.                                
    1406j, 1406k. Repealed.                                           
    1406l.      Effective date.                                       
    1406m.      Short title.                                          

                SUBCHAPTER III - VIRGIN ISLANDS CORPORATION            
    1407 to 1407i. Repealed.                                          

                      SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING                  
    1408.       Legislative authority to create authorities;
                 appointment of members; powers of authorities.       
    1408a.      Issuance of notes, bonds, and obligations.            
    1408b.      Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by
                 government and municipalities.                       
    1408c.      Grants-in-aid by Federal Government.                  
    1408d.      Ratification of prior acts.                           
    1408e.      Additional powers.                                    

                    SUBCHAPTER V - INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT                
    1409 to 1409j. Repealed.                                          

                   SUBCHAPTER VI - AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM               
    1409m to 1409o. Repealed.                                         

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 


-MISC1-
                           ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS                       
      For additional provisions, constituting a revision of the Organic
    Act of the Virgin Islands of the United States, see section 1541 et
    seq. of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      A new organic act, or basic charter of civil government, for the
    people of the Virgin Islands of the United States, was passed in
    1954. Act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, known as the
    Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, is set out as section
    1541 et seq. of this title. Section 8(c) of the Revised Organic
    Act, set out as section 1574(c) of this title, provides that laws
    of the United States, set out generally in this chapter, as well as
    local laws and ordinances, including provisions of the Organic Act
    of the Virgin Islands of the United States, act June 22, 1936, ch.
    699, 49 Stat. 1807, section 1405 et seq. of this title, in force on
    July 22, 1954, and not inconsistent with act July 22, 1954, are to
    remain in force and effect until otherwise changed.


-MISC2-
         CONSTITUTIONS FOR VIRGIN ISLANDS AND GUAM: ESTABLISHMENT;
                        CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION
      Pub. L. 94-584, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2899, as amended by Pub.
    L. 96-597, title V, Sec. 501, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3479,
    provided:
      "[Section 1. Authorization to organize governments] That the
    Congress, recognizing the basic democratic principle of government
    by the consent of the governed, authorities the peoples of the
    Virgin Islands and of Guam, respectively, to organize governments
    pursuant to constitutions of their own adoption as provided in this
    Act.
      "Sec. 2. [Constitutional conventions and draft provisions] (a)
    The Legislatures of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, are
    authorized to call constitutional conventions to draft, within the
    existing territorial-Federal relationship, constitutions for the
    local self-government of the people of the Virgin Islands and Guam.
      "(b) Such constitutions shall - 
        "(1) recognize, and be consistent with, the sovereignty of the
      United States over the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, and
      the supremacy of the provisions of the Constitution, treaties,
      and laws of the United States applicable to the Virgin Islands
      and Guam, respectively, including, but not limited to, those
      provisions of the Organic Act [this chapter] and Revised Organic
      Act of the Virgin Islands [section 1541 et seq. of this title]
      and the Organic Act of Guam [section 1421 et seq. of this title]
      which do not relate to local self-government.
        "(2) provide for a republican form of government, consisting of
      three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial;
        "(3) contain a bill of rights;
        "(4) deal with the subject matter of those provisions of the
      Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands of 1954, as amended,
      and the Organic Act of Guam, as amended, respectively, which
      relate to local self-government;
        "(5) with reference to Guam, provide that the voting franchise
      may be vested only in residents of Guam who are citizens of the
      United States;
        "(6) provide for a system of local courts consistent with the
      provisions of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, as
      amended; and
        "(7) provide for the establishment of a system of local courts
      the provisions of which shall become effective no sooner than
      upon the enactment of legislation regulating the relationship
      between the local courts of Guam with the Federal judicial
      system.
      "Sec. 3. [Selection and qualifications of members] The members of
    such constitutional conventions shall be chosen as provided by the
    laws of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively (enacted after
    the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1976]): Provided,
    however, That no person shall be eligible to be a member of the
    constitutional conventions, unless he is a citizen of the United
    States and qualified to vote in the Virgin Islands and Guam,
    respectively.
      "Sec. 4. [Submittal of proposed constitutions to governors and
    President] The conventions shall submit to the Governor of the
    Virgin Islands a proposed constitution for the Virgin Islands and
    to the Governor of Guam a proposed constitution for Guam which
    shall comply with the requirements set forth in section 2(b) above.
    Such constitutions shall be submitted to the President of the
    United States by the Governors of the Virgin Islands and Guam.
      "Sec. 5. [Transmittal to Congress and submittal to voters] Within
    sixty calendar days after the respective date on which he has
    received each constitution, the President shall transmit such
    constitution together with his comments to the Congress. The
    constitution, in each case, shall be deemed to have been approved
    by the Congress within sixty legislative days (not interrupted by
    an adjournment sine die of the Congress) after its submission by
    the President, unless prior to that date the Congress has approved
    the constitution, or modified or amended it, in whole or in part,
    by joint resolution. As so approved or modified, the constitutions
    shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the Virgin Islands
    and Guam, respectively, for acceptance or rejection through
    islandwide referendums to be conducted as provided under the laws
    of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, (enacted after the
    date of enactment of this Act) [Oct. 21, 1976]. Upon approval by
    not less than a majority of the votes (counting only the
    affirmative or negative votes) participating in such referendums,
    the constitutions shall become effective in accordance with their
    terms."

                 DELEGATE TO CONGRESS FROM VIRGIN ISLANDS             
      Provisions respecting representation in Congress by a Delegate
    from Virgin Islands to the House of Representatives, see section
    1711 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1391                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1391. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1391. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 643.
      Section, act Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, Sec. 1, 39 Stat. 1132,
    provided for appointment and pay of Governor of Virgin Islands and
    other employees.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1392                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1392. Local laws continued; courts

-STATUTE-
      Until Congress shall otherwise provide, insofar as compatible
    with the changed sovereignty and not in conflict with the
    provisions of this section and sections 1391 (!1) and 1394 to 1396
    of this title, the laws regulating elections and the electoral
    franchise as set forth in the code of laws published at Amalienborg
    the 6th day of April, 1906, and the other local laws, in force and
    effect in said islands on the 17th day of January, 1917, shall
    remain in force and effect in said islands, and the same shall be
    administered by the civil officials and through the local judicial
    tribunals established in said islands, respectively; and the
    orders, judgments, and decrees of said judicial tribunals shall be
    duly enforced. With the approval of the President, or under such
    rules and regulations as the President may prescribe, any of said
    laws may be repealed, altered, or amended by the colonial council
    having jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the judicial tribunals of
    said islands shall extend to all judicial proceedings and
    controversies in said islands to which the United States or any
    citizen thereof may be a party.


-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, Sec. 2, 39 Stat. 1132; June 25, 1948, ch.
    646, Sec. 39, 62 Stat. 992.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 1391 of this title, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 643.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1948 - Act June 25, 1948, repealed last sentence relating to
    appeals. See section 1294 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1948 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act June 25, 1948, effective Sept. 1, 1948, see
    section 38 of that act set out as an Effective Date note preceding
    section 1 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1392a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1392a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1392a. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 650, 654.
      Section, acts May 24, 1940, ch. 209, Sec. 3, 54 Stat. 220; July
    31, 1946, ch. 704, Sec. 1, 60 Stat. 716; June 25, 1948, ch. 646,
    Sec. 30, 62 Stat. 991, related to salary of judge of District
    Court.
      Section was formerly classified to section 5a of Title 28 prior
    to the general revision and enactment of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, by act June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec. 1, 62 Stat.
    869.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1392b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1392b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1392b. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 308(c), Oct.
      19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section, act July 1, 1932, ch. 370, Sec. 2, 47 Stat. 565, vested
    in District Court of Virgin Islands jurisdiction of prosecutions
    for violations of section 1399 of this title, relating to
    obstruction of navigable waters.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1393                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1393. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1393. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 308(a), Oct.
      19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section, act July 12, 1921, ch. 44, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 123,
    declared as ineligible to hold office as a member of colonial
    councils of Virgin Islands or any other public office under Virgin
    Islands government, anyone owing allegiance to any country other
    than United States.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1394                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1394. Customs duties and internal-revenue taxes

-STATUTE-
      There shall be levied, collected, and paid upon all articles
    coming into the United States or its possessions from the Virgin
    Islands the rates of duty and internal-revenue taxes which are
    required to be levied, collected, and paid upon like articles
    imported from foreign countries: Provided, That all articles, the
    growth or product of, or manufactured in, such islands, from
    materials the growth or product of such islands or of the United
    States, or of both, or which do not contain foreign materials to
    the value of more than 20 per centum of their total value, upon
    which no drawback of customs duties has been allowed therein,
    coming into the United States from such islands shall be admitted
    free of duty. In determining whether such a Virgin Islands article
    contains foreign material to the value of more than 20 per centum,
    no material shall be considered foreign which, at the time the
    Virgin Islands article is entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for
    consumption, may be imported into the continental United States
    free of duty generally.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, Sec. 3, 39 Stat. 1133; Sept. 7, 1950, ch.
    909, 64 Stat. 784.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1950 - Act Sept. 7, 1950, permitted free entry of articles into
    the United States from the Virgin Islands when such articles
    contain foreign materials which may be imported directly into the
    United States free of duty.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1395                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1395. Tax laws continued; tax on sugar

-STATUTE-
      Until Congress shall otherwise provide all laws now imposing
    taxes in the said West Indian Islands, including the customs laws
    and regulations, shall, insofar as compatible with the changed
    sovereignty and not otherwise herein provided, continue in force
    and effect, except that articles the growth, product, or
    manufacture of the United States shall be admitted there free of
    duty: Provided, That upon exportation of sugar to any foreign
    country, or the shipment thereof to the United States or any of its
    possessions, there shall be levied, collected, and paid thereon an
    export duty of $6 per ton of two thousand pounds, irrespective of
    polariscope test, in lieu of any export tax now required by law:
    Provided further, That the internal revenue taxes levied by the
    Colonial Council of Saint Croix, or by the Colonial Council of
    Saint Thomas and Saint John, in pursuance of the authority granted
    by this section and sections 1391,(!1) 1392, 1394, and 1396 of this
    title on articles, goods, wares, or merchandise may be levied and
    collected as the Colonial Council of Saint Croix, or as the
    Colonial Council of Saint Thomas and Saint John, may direct, on the
    articles subject to said tax, as soon as the same are manufactured,
    sold, used, or brought into the island: And provided further, That
    no discrimination be made between the articles imported from the
    United States or foreign countries and similar articles produced or
    manufactured in the municipality of Saint Croix, or in the
    municipality of Saint Thomas and Saint John, respectively. The
    officials of the Customs and Postal Services of the United States
    are directed to assist the appropriate officials of the
    municipality of Saint Croix, or of the municipality of Saint Thomas
    and Saint John, in the collection of these taxes.


-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, Sec. 4, 39 Stat. 1133; Feb. 25, 1927, ch.
    192, Sec. 5, 44 Stat. 1235; June 24, 1932, ch. 275, 47 Stat. 333.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The customs laws, referred to in text, are classified generally
    to Title 19, Customs Duties.
      Section 1391 of this title, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80 Stat. 643.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1932 - Act June 24, 1932, inserted provisos permitting local levy
    of internal revenue taxes, prohibiting discrimination against
    imports, and directing customs and postal services to assist in
    collecting taxes.
      1927 - Act Feb. 25, 1927, reduced export duty on sugar from $8 to
    $6 per ton.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1396                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1396. Duties and taxes covered into Virgin Islands treasury

-STATUTE-
      The duties and taxes collected in pursuance of sections 1394 and
    1395 of this title shall not be covered into the general fund of
    the Treasury of the United States, but shall be used and expended
    for the government and benefit of the Virgin Islands, under such
    rules and regulations as the President may prescribe.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1917, ch. 171, Sec. 5, 39 Stat. 1133.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1397                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1397. Income tax laws of United States in force; payment of
      proceeds; levy of surtax on all taxpayers

-STATUTE-
      The income-tax laws in force in the United States of America and
    those which may hereafter be enacted shall be held to be likewise
    in force in the Virgin Islands of the United States, except that
    the proceeds of such taxes shall be paid into the treasuries of
    said islands: Provided further, That, notwithstanding any other
    provision of law, the Legislature of the Virgin Islands is
    authorized to levy a surtax on all taxpayers in an amount not to
    exceed 10 per centum of their annual income tax obligation to the
    government of the Virgin Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (July 12, 1921, ch. 44, Sec. 1, 42 Stat. 123; Pub. L. 94-392, Sec.
    5, Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1195.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The income-tax laws in force in the United States of America,
    referred to in text, are classified to Title 26, Internal Revenue
    Code.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is from act July 12, 1921, popularly known as the Naval
    Service Appropriation Act, 1922.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1976 - Pub. L. 94-392 inserted proviso authorizing Legislature of
    Virgin Islands to levy a surtax, not to exceed 10 per centum, on
    annual income tax obligation of all taxpayers.

    APPLICATION OF WESTERN HEMISPHERE TRADE CORPORATION PROVISION UNDER
                        THE VIRGIN ISLANDS TAX LAWS
      Pub. L. 92-178, title III, Sec. 307, Dec. 10, 1971, 85 Stat. 524,
    provided that for purposes of applying the income tax laws of the
    United States with respect to the Virgin Islands under this
    section, subpart C of part III of subchapter N of chapter 1 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1954 [former 26 U.S.C. 921, 922] (relating
    to Western Hemisphere Trade Corporations) shall be treated as
    having been repealed effective with respect to taxable years
    beginning after Dec. 10, 1971.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1398                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1398. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act July 1, 1922, ch. 259, 42 Stat. 788, which related
    to quarantine and passport fees, was from the Navy Department and
    Naval Service Appropriation Act, 1923, was not repeated in
    subsequent years. See section 1642 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1399                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1399. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1399. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 308(b), Oct.
      19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section, acts July 3, 1930, ch. 847, Sec. 8, 46 Stat. 948; July
    1, 1932, ch. 370, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 565, made applicable to the
    Virgin Islands and the navigable waters thereof, certain provisions
    of Title 33, Navigation and Navigable Waters, relating to
    obstruction of navigable waters.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1400                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1400. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1400. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-454, title VII, Sec. 709, Oct. 5,
      1984, 98 Stat. 1741.
      Section, act May 20, 1932, ch. 194, 47 Stat. 160, related to
    extension of admiralty laws of the United States to Virgin Islands.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1401 to 1401e                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1401 to 1401e. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1401 to 1401e. Repealed. Pub. L. 110-40, Sec. 1(a), June 29,
      2007, 121 Stat. 232.
      Section 1401, act May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1372,
    set out the policy of Congress to equalize taxes on real property
    in the Virgin Islands.
      Section 1401a, act May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1372,
    related to valuation of real property for assessment and uniformity
    of rates.
      Section 1401b, act May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 1372,
    related to rate of tax in absence of local laws and regulations by
    President for assessment and collection pending adoption of local
    laws.
      Section 1401c, act May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 4, 49 Stat. 1372,
    provided that taxes were to be deposited in the municipal treasury
    of the municipality in which collected.
      Section 1401d, acts May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 5, 49 Stat. 1372;
    June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 12, 63 Stat. 356, related to payments
    to be made by the Virgin Islands Corporation into municipal
    treasuries of the Virgin Islands in lieu of certain taxes,
    valuation of real property in the Virgin Islands owned by the
    Virgin Islands Corporation as a basis for determining the amount of
    taxation, and payment to be made for any property owned by the
    United States in the Virgin Islands used for ordinary business or
    commercial purposes.
      Section 1401e, act May 26, 1936, ch. 450, Sec. 6, 49 Stat. 1373,
    related to exemptions from taxation and authority of municipalities
    to alter, amend, or repeal existing laws.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Pub. L. 110-40, Sec. 1(b), June 29, 2007, 121 Stat. 232, provided
    that: "This section [repealing sections 1401 to 1401e of this
    title] shall be deemed to have taken effect on July 22, 1954."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1401f                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1401f. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Oct. 5, 1992, Pub. L. 102-381, title I, 106 Stat.
    1392, which authorized Territorial and local governments of Virgin
    Islands to make purchases through General Services Administration,
    was from the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies
    Appropriations Act, 1992, and was not repeated in subsequent
    appropriation acts. See section 1469e of this title. Similar
    provisions were contained in the following prior appropriation
    acts:
      Nov. 13, 1991, Pub. L. 102-154, title I, 105 Stat. 1007.
      Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101-512, title I, 104 Stat. 1932.
      Oct. 23, 1989, Pub. L. 101-121, title I, 103 Stat. 716.
      Sept. 27, 1988, Pub. L. 100-446, title I, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Dec. 22, 1987, Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-231.
      Oct. 18, 1986, Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Oct. 30, 1986, Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h)
    [title I], 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-258.
      Dec. 19, 1985, Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], 99 Stat.
    1224, 1238.
      Oct. 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat. 931.
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1401.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 965.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1052.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 987.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 812.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 433.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 512.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 151.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 430.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 339.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 250.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 112.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 163.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 265.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 264.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.
      July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.
      July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66 Stat. 457.
      Aug. 31, 1951, ch. 375, title I, 65 Stat. 263.
      Sept. 6, 1950, ch. 896, Ch. VII, title I, 64 Stat. 694.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1402                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1402. Extension of industrial alcohol and internal revenue
      laws to Virgin Islands

-STATUTE-
      Title III of the National Prohibition Act, as amended, and all
    provisions of the internal revenue laws relating to the enforcement
    thereof, are extended to and made applicable to the Virgin Islands,
    from and after August 27, 1935. The Insular Government shall
    advance to the Treasury of the United States such funds as may be
    required from time to time by the Secretary of the Treasury for the
    purpose of defraying all expenses incurred by the Treasury
    Department in connection with the enforcement in the Virgin Islands
    of the said Title III and regulations promulgated thereunder. The
    funds so advanced shall be deposited in a separate trust fund in
    the Treasury of the United States and shall be available to the
    Treasury Department for the purposes of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (June 26, 1936, ch. 830, title III, Sec. 329(c), 49 Stat. 1957.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The National Prohibition Act, as amended, referred to in text, is
    act Oct. 28, 1919, ch. 85, 41 Stat. 305, as amended. Title III of
    such Act was classified principally to chapter 3 (Sec. 71 et seq.)
    of Title 27, Intoxicating Liquors, and was omitted from the Code in
    view of the incorporation of such provisions in the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1939, and subsequently into the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986.
      The internal revenue laws, referred to in text, are classified
    generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Provisions similar to those comprising this section relating to
    Puerto Rico are classified to section 734a of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1403                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1403. Issuance of bonds or other obligations by government or
      municipalities; use of proceeds; limit on public indebtedness;
      terms, execution, interest rate, and sale price; taxes

-STATUTE-
      To construct, improve, extend, better, repair, reconstruct,
    acquire, and operate any and all types of public works which shall
    include, but not be limited to, streets, bridges, wharves, and
    harbor facilities, sewers and sewage-disposal plants, municipal
    buildings, schools, libraries, gymnasia and athletic fields, fire
    houses, electric distribution systems or other work pertaining to
    electric systems, and other public utilities, including those owned
    or operated by the Saint Thomas Power Authority, or to clear slums,
    accomplish urban redevelopment or provide low-rent housing,
    negotiable general obligation bonds and other obligations may be
    issued by the government of the Virgin Islands or any municipality
    thereof: Provided, That no public indebtedness of any municipality
    thereof shall be incurred in excess of 10 per centum of the
    aggregate assessed valuation of the taxable real property in such
    municipality and that no public indebtedness of the government of
    the Virgin Islands shall be incurred in excess of 10 per centum of
    the aggregate assessed valuation of the taxable real property in
    the islands. Bonds issued pursuant to sections 1403 to 1403b of
    this title shall bear such date or dates, may be in such
    denominations, may mature in such amounts and at such time or
    times, not exceeding thirty years from the date thereof, may be
    payable at such place or places, may be sold at either public or
    private sale, may be redeemable (either with or without premium) or
    nonredeemable, may carry such registration privileges as to either
    principal and interest, or principal only, and may be executed by
    such officers and in such manner, as shall be prescribed by the
    government of the Virgin Islands or of the municipality issuing the
    bonds. In case any of the officers whose signatures appear on the
    bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officers before delivery of
    such bonds, such signature, whether manual or facsimile, shall,
    nevertheless, be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as
    if such officers had remained in office until such delivery. The
    bonds so issued shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed 4 per
    centum per annum, payable semiannually. All such bonds shall be
    sold for not less than the principal amount thereof plus accrued
    interest. All bonds issued by the government of the Virgin Islands
    or any municipality thereof, including specifically interest
    thereon, shall be exempt from taxation by the Government of the
    United States, or by the government of the Virgin Islands or any
    political subdivision thereof, or by any State, Territory, or
    possession or by any political subdivision of any State, Territory,
    or possession, or by the District of Columbia: Provided further,
    That the government of the Virgin Islands and any municipality
    thereof shall be obliged to levy and collect sufficient taxes for
    servicing any of the outstanding bonds, even if such taxation is
    required at a rate in excess of or in addition to the tax or tax
    rate of 1.25 per centum of the assessed value which is provided for
    in section 1401b (!1) of this title.


-SOURCE-
    (Oct. 27, 1949, ch. 769, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 940.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 1401b of this title, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 110-40, Sec. 1(a), June 29, 2007, 121 Stat. 232.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1403a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1403a. Expenditure of bond proceeds for public improvements

-STATUTE-
      The proceeds of the bond issues or other obligations herein
    authorized shall be expended only for the public improvements set
    forth in section 1403 of this title, or for the reduction of the
    debt created by such bond issue or obligation, unless otherwise
    authorized by the Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Oct. 27, 1949, ch. 769, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 941.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1403b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1403b. Bond liability of United States

-STATUTE-
      Bonds or other obligations issued pursuant to sections 1403 to
    1403b of this title shall not be a debt of the United States, nor
    shall the United States be liable thereon.

-SOURCE-
    (Oct. 27, 1949, ch. 769, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 941.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405. Geographical application of subchapter; land and waters
      included in term "Virgin Islands"

-STATUTE-
      The provisions of this subchapter, and the name "the Virgin
    Islands" as used in this subchapter, shall apply to and include the
    territorial domain, lands and waters acquired by the United States
    through cession of the Danish West Indian Islands by the convention
    between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of
    Denmark entered into August 4, 1916, and ratified by the Senate on
    September 7, 1916 (39 Stat. L. 1706).

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 1, 49 Stat. 1807.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405a, 1405b                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405a, 1405b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405a, 1405b. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 307,
      Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section 1405a, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 2, 49 Stat. 1807,
    related to division of Virgin Islands into municipality of Saint
    Croix and municipality of Saint Thomas and Saint John.
      Section 1405b, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 3, 49 Stat. 1807,
    related to constituting into bodies politic and juridic of
    inhabitants of municipalities of Saint Croix and of Saint Thomas
    and Saint John.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405c. Transfer of property to government

-STATUTE-
    (a) Property not reserved
      All property which may have been acquired by the United States
    from Denmark in the Virgin Islands under the convention entered
    into August 4, 1916, not reserved by the United States for public
    purposes prior to June 22, 1937, is placed under the control of the
    Government of the Virgin Islands.
    (b) Applicability of United States law
      Except as otherwise expressly provided, all laws of the United
    States for the protection and improvement of the navigable waters
    of the United States shall apply to the Virgin Islands.
    (c) Applicability of tonnage duties
      No Federal laws levying tonnage duties, light money, or entrance
    and clearance fees shall apply to the Virgin Islands.
    (d) Presidential determination of applicable laws
      The legislature of the Virgin Islands shall have power to enact
    navigation, boat inspection, and safety laws of local application;
    but the President shall have power to make applicable to the Virgin
    Islands such of the navigation, vessel inspection, and coastwise
    laws of the United States as he may find and declare to be
    necessary in the public interest, and, to the extent that the laws
    so made applicable conflict with any laws of local application
    enacted by the legislature, such laws enacted by the legislature
    shall have no force and effect.
    (e) Existing powers of United States officers unaffected
      Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to affect or impair
    in any manner the terms and conditions of any authorizations,
    permits, or other powers heretofore lawfully granted or exercised
    in or in respect of the Virgin Islands by any authorized officer or
    agent of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 4, 49 Stat. 1808; Aug. 7, 1939, ch.
    515, 53 Stat. 1242; Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 654, Sec. 1(127), 65 Stat.
    706; Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 306, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat.
    1709.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1982 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 97-357 substituted "legislature" for
    "Legislative Assembly" wherever appearing.
      1951 - Subsec. (f). Act Oct. 31, 1951, repealed subsec. (f) which
    authorized the Secretary of the Interior to lease or sell any
    property under his administrative supervision in the Virgin Islands
    not needed for public purposes.
      1939 - Act Aug. 7, 1939, designated existing provisions as
    subsecs. (a), (b), (e), and (f) and added subsecs. (c) and (d).

     CONSTRUCTION OF VIRGIN ISLANDS PROJECTS BY SECRETARY OF THE ARMY 
      Pub. L. 101-640, title IV, Sec. 406, Nov. 28, 1990, 104 Stat.
    4647, provided that:
      "(a) General Rule. - Upon request of the Governor of the Virgin
    Islands with respect to a construction project in the Virgin
    Islands for which Federal financial assistance is available under
    any law of the United States, the Federal official administering
    such assistance may make such assistance available to the Secretary
    instead of the Virgin Islands. The Secretary shall use such
    assistance to carry out such project in accordance with the
    provisions of such law.
      "(b) Limitation on Statutory Construction. - Nothing in this
    section shall be construed as relieving the Virgin Islands from
    complying with any requirements for non-Federal cooperation with
    respect to a construction project carried out with Federal
    financial assistance provided to the Secretary pursuant to this
    section; except that the Secretary shall be responsible for
    complying with administrative and fiscal requirements associated
    with utilization of such assistance.
      "(c) Termination Date. - Subsection (a) shall not be effective
    after the last day of the 3-year period beginning on the date of
    the enactment of this Act [Nov. 28, 1990]; except that the
    Secretary shall complete construction of any project commenced
    under subsection (a) before such day."


-EXEC-
       EX. ORD. NO. 9170. CERTAIN NAVIGATION LAWS MADE APPLICABLE TO
                              VIRGIN ISLANDS
      Ex. Ord. No. 9170, eff. May 21, 1942, 7 F.R. 384, provided in
    part:
      It is ordered that all of the navigation and vessel inspection
    laws of the United States be, and they are hereby, made applicable
    to the Virgin Islands of the United States, with the following
    exceptions:
      (1) The coastwise laws of the United States.
      (2) The act of Congress approved June 7, 1897 (30 Stat. 96), as
    amended by the acts of February 19, 1900 (31 Stat. 30), May 25,
    1914 (38 Stat. 381), March 1, 1933 (47 Stat. 1417), Aug. 21, 1935
    (49 Stat. 668, 669), May 20, 1936 (49 Stat. 1367), and April 22,
    1940 (54 Stat. 150).
      (3) So much of the vessel inspection laws of the United States as
    requires the inspection as a passenger vessel of any cargo vessel,
    foreign or domestic, when carrying more than twelve passengers or
    persons in addition to the crew.
      (4) Federal laws levying tonnage duties, light money, or entrance
    and clearance fees.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405d to 1405g                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405d to 1405g. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405d to 1405g. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      307, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section 1405d, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 5, 49 Stat. 1808,
    related to composition, election, and legislative powers of
    Municipal Council of Saint Croix.
      Section 1405e, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 6, 49 Stat. 1808,
    related to composition, election, and legislative powers of
    Municipal Council of Saint Thomas and Saint John.
      Section 1405f, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 7, 49 Stat. 1808,
    related to composition, meetings, and powers of two municipal
    councils to be known as the Legislative Assembly of the Virgin
    Islands.
      Section 1405g, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 8, 49 Stat. 1809,
    related to time of holding elections.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405h, 1405i                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405h, 1405i. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405h, 1405i. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6,
      1966, 80 Stat. 649.
      Section 1405h, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 9, 49 Stat. 1809,
    related to eligibility for membership in municipal councils.
      Section 1405i, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 10, 49 Stat.
    1809, related to compensation and travel expenses of municipal
    council members.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405j to 1405p                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405j to 1405p. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405j to 1405p. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      307, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section 1405j, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 11, 49 Stat.
    1809, related to powers of municipal councils, exemption of members
    from liability for debate in council, and privilege from arrest.
      Section 1405k, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 12, 49 Stat.
    1809, related to appointment by each municipal council of members
    to serve on Municipal Committee and powers of Municipal Committee.
      Section 1405l, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 13, 49 Stat.
    1810, related to time and place of meetings of each municipal
    council.
      Section 1405m, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 14, 49 Stat.
    1810, related to introduction of bills in municipal councils by
    Governor, submission to councils of a budget of estimated receipts
    and expenditures, and submission of reports.
      Section 1405n, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 15, 49 Stat.
    1810, related to quorum of councils, vote on adoption of bills, and
    a journal of proceedings.
      Section 1405o, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 16, 49 Stat.
    1810, related to acts of councils and assembly, approval or veto
    thereof by Governor, submission of repassed vetoed bills to the
    President, annulment of acts by Congress, and authorization of
    appropriations.
      Section 1405p, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 17, 49 Stat.
    1811, related to vesting of voting franchise in residents of the
    Virgin Islands who are citizens of the United States and
    prescription by legislative assembly of additional qualifications.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405q                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405q. Laws continued in force until modified; patent, trade
      mark, and copyright laws extended to Virgin Islands; jurisdiction
      of district court

-STATUTE-
      The laws of the United States applicable to the Virgin Islands on
    June 22, 1936, and all local laws and ordinances in force on such
    date in the Virgin Islands, not inconsistent with this subchapter,
    shall continue in force and effect: Provided, That the Municipal
    Council of Saint Croix and the Municipal Council of Saint Thomas
    and Saint John, and the legislative assembly, shall have power when
    not inconsistent with this subchapter and within their respective
    jurisdictions, to amend, alter, modify, or repeal any law of the
    United States of local application only, or any ordinance, public
    or private, civil or criminal, continued in force and effect by
    this subchapter, except as herein otherwise provided, and to enact
    new laws and ordinances not inconsistent with this subchapter and
    not inconsistent with the laws of the United States hereafter made
    applicable to the Virgin Islands or any part thereof, subject to
    the power of the Congress to annul the same. The laws of the United
    States relating to patents, trade marks, and copyrights, and to the
    enforcement of rights arising thereunder, shall have the same force
    and effect in the Virgin Islands as in the continental United
    States, and the District Court of the Virgin Islands shall have the
    same jurisdiction in causes arising under such laws as is exercised
    by United States district courts.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 18, 49 Stat. 1811.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The laws of the United States relating to patents, trade marks,
    and copyrights, referred to in text, are classified generally to
    Title 35, Patents, chapter 22 (Sec. 1051 et seq.) of Title 15,
    Commerce and Trade, and Title 17, Copyrights.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405r                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405r. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1405r. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 307, Oct. 19,
      1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 19, 49 Stat. 1811,
    related to scope of legislative power of Virgin Islands and
    prohibition of tax discrimination against property of nonresidents.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405s to 1405t                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405s to 1405t. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405s to 1405t. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6,
      1966, 80 Stat. 649, 651, 655.
      Section 1405s, acts June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 20, 49 Stat.
    1812; Dec. 26, 1941, ch. 637, 55 Stat. 872, related to executive
    branch of Government, and to appointment, powers and duties of
    Governor.
      Section 1405s-1, act Oct. 15, 1949, ch. 695, Sec. 5(a), 63 Stat.
    880, prescribed compensation of Governor.
      This section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands of the United States which comprises this
    subchapter.
      Section 1405t, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 21, 49 Stat.
    1812, related to appointment, powers and duties of Government
    Secretary.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405u to 1405w                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405u to 1405w. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405u to 1405w. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      307, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section 1405u, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 22, 49 Stat.
    1812, related to appointment of an Administrator for Saint Croix to
    act for Governor.
      Section 1405v, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 23, 49 Stat.
    1813, related to appointment of such other executive and
    administrative officers as may be required in discretion of
    Secretary of the Interior.
      Section 1405w, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 24, 49 Stat.
    1813, related to appointment of all salaried officers and employees
    of municipal governments by Governor with advice and consent of
    municipal council having jurisdiction.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405w-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405w-1. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act July 3, 1945, ch. 262, Sec. 1, 59 Stat. 359, which
    related to appointment of an executive assistant to Governor and
    legal counsel, was superseded by section 1591 of this title.
    Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of the Virgin
    Islands of the United States which comprises this subchapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405x                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405x. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1405x. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 307, Oct. 19,
      1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 25, 49 Stat. 1813,
    related to vesting of judicial power in District Court of Virgin
    Islands, organization and conduct of a Superior Court, and appeals
    from Superior Court.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1405y                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1405y. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1405y. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 649, 650, 654, 657.
      Section, acts June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 26, 49 Stat. 1813;
    Aug. 5, 1939, ch. 430, 53 Stat. 1203; June 25, 1948, ch. 646, Sec.
    28, 62 Stat. 991; Feb. 10, 1954, ch. 6, Sec. 3(a), 68 Stat. 12,
    related to appointment of a judge of district court, a special
    judge, district attorney, and court officers.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1405z to 1406e                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1405z to 1406e. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1405z to 1406e. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      307, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section 1405z, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 27, 49 Stat.
    1813, related to two divisions of District Court of Virgin Islands,
    terms of court, rules of practice, and process.
      Section 1406, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 28, 49 Stat. 1814,
    related to jurisdiction of district court generally.
      Section 1406a, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 29, 49 Stat.
    1814, related to jurisdiction of district court over crimes
    committed on the high seas.
      Section 1406b, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 30, 49 Stat.
    1814, related to appeals from District Court of Virgin Islands.
      Section 1406c, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 31, 49 Stat.
    1814, related to jury trials in criminal cases.
      Section 1406d, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 32, 49 Stat.
    1814, related to jurisdiction of inferior courts.
      Section 1406e, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 33, 49 Stat.
    1815, related to appeals from inferior courts to district court.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406f                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406f. Judicial process; title of criminal prosecutions

-STATUTE-
      All judicial process shall run in the name of "United States of
    America, scilicet, the President of the United States", and all
    penal or criminal prosecutions in the local courts shall be
    conducted in the name of and by authority of "the People of the
    Virgin Islands of the United States."

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 37, 49 Stat. 1817.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406g                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406g. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1406g. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 307, Oct. 19,
      1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 34, 49 Stat. 1815,
    related to bill of rights of Virgin Islands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406h                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406h. Taxes, duties and fees as funds for benefit of
      municipalities; appropriations

-STATUTE-
      All taxes, duties, fees, and public revenues collected in the
    municipality of Saint Croix shall be covered into the treasury of
    the Virgin Islands and held in account for said municipality and
    all taxes, duties, fees, and public revenues collected in the
    municipality of Saint Thomas and Saint John shall be covered into
    said treasury of the Virgin Islands and held in account for said
    municipality: Provided, That the proceeds of customs duties, less
    the cost of collection, and the proceeds of the United States
    income tax, and the proceeds of any taxes levied by the Congress on
    the inhabitants of the Virgin Islands, and all quarantine,
    passport, immigration, and naturalization fees collected in the
    Virgin Islands shall be covered into the treasury of the Virgin
    Islands and held in account for the respective municipalities, and
    shall be expended for the benefit and government of said
    municipalities in accordance with the annual municipal budgets. The
    Municipal Council of Saint Croix may make appropriations for the
    purposes of said municipality from, and to be paid out of, the
    funds credited to its account in the treasury of the Virgin
    Islands; and the Municipal Council of Saint Thomas and Saint John
    may make appropriations for the purposes of said municipality from,
    and to be paid out of, the funds credited to its account in said
    treasury.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 35, 49 Stat. 1816.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406i                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406i. Taxes and fees; power to assess and collect; ports of
      entry; export duties

-STATUTE-
      Taxes and assessments on property and incomes, internal-revenue
    taxes, license fees, and service fees may be imposed and collected,
    and royalties for franchises, privileges, and concessions granted
    may be collected for the purposes of the Government of the Virgin
    Islands as may be provided and defined by the municipal councils
    herein established: Provided, That all money hereafter derived from
    any tax levied or assessed for a special purpose shall be treated
    as a special fund in the treasury of the Virgin Islands and paid
    out for such purpose only, except when otherwise authorized by the
    legislative authority having jurisdiction after the purpose for
    which such fund was created has been accomplished. Until Congress
    shall otherwise provide, all laws concerning import duties and
    customs in the municipality of Saint Thomas and Saint John now in
    effect shall be in force and effect in and for the Virgin Islands:
    Provided, That the Secretary of the Treasury shall designate the
    several ports and sub-ports of entry in the Virgin Islands of the
    United States and shall make such rules and regulations and appoint
    such officers and employees as he may deem necessary for the
    administration of the customs laws in the Virgin Islands of the
    United States; and he shall fix the compensation of all such
    officers and employees and provide for the payment of such
    compensations and other expenses of the collection of duties, fees,
    and taxes imposed under the customs laws from the receipts thereof.
    The export duties in effect on June 22, 1936 may be from time to
    time reduced, repealed, or restored by ordinance of the municipal
    council having jurisdiction: Provided further, That no new export
    duties shall be levied in the Virgin Islands except by the
    Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 36, 49 Stat. 1816.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The customs laws, referred to in text, are classified generally
    to Title 19, Customs Duties.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406j                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406j. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1406j. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 649.
      Section, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 38, 49 Stat. 1817,
    provided for citizenship of officials and for oath of office.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406k                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406k. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1406k. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 307, Oct. 19,
      1982, 96 Stat. 1709.
      Section, act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 39, 49 Stat. 1817,
    related to jurisdiction of Secretary of the Interior and Attorney
    General.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406l                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406l. Effective date

-STATUTE-
      This subchapter shall take effect June 22, 1936, but until its
    provisions shall severally become operative as herein provided, the
    corresponding legislative, executive, and judicial functions of the
    existing government shall continue to be exercised as now provided
    by law or ordinance, and the present incumbents of all offices
    under the Government of the Virgin Islands shall continue in office
    until their successors are appointed and have qualified unless
    sooner removed by competent authority.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 40, 49 Stat. 1817.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1406m                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - CIVIL GOVERNMENT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1406m. Short title

-STATUTE-
      This subchapter may be cited as the Organic Act of the Virgin
    Islands of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (June 22, 1936, ch. 699, Sec. 41, 49 Stat. 1817.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - VIRGIN ISLANDS CORPORATION          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - VIRGIN ISLANDS CORPORATION

-HEAD-
                SUBCHAPTER III - VIRGIN ISLANDS CORPORATION            

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1407 to 1407i                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - VIRGIN ISLANDS CORPORATION

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1407 to 1407i. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1407 to 1407i. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      308(e), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section 1407, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 1, 63 Stat. 350,
    related to creation of Virgin Islands Corporation under direction
    of the President of the United States or his representative for
    promotion of economic development of Virgin Islands.
      Section 1407a, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 2, 63 Stat. 351,
    related to principal offices of Corporation for venue purposes and
    establishment of branch offices.
      Section 1407b, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 3, 63 Stat. 351,
    set forth authorized activities of Corporation.
      Section 1407c, acts June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 4, 63 Stat. 352;
    Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85-913, Secs. 1-3, 72 Stat. 1759; June 6,
    1972, Pub. L. 92-310, title II, Sec. 234, 86 Stat. 214, related to
    general powers of Corporation.
      Section 1407d, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 5, 63 Stat. 353,
    related to utilization of other Federal agencies and
    instrumentalities.
      Section 1407e, acts June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 6, 63 Stat. 353;
    Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85-913, Sec. 4, 72 Stat. 1760; Oct. 4, 1961,
    Pub. L. 87-382, 75 Stat. 812, related to appropriation of money and
    establishment of a revolving fund.
      Section 1407f, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 7, 63 Stat. 353;
    1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, Sec. 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959,
    84 Stat. 2085, related to use of funds and limitations thereon,
    interest payments to Treasury on advances, and contributions to
    retirement and disability funds.
      Section 1407g, acts June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 8, 63 Stat. 354;
    Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85-913, Sec. 5, 72 Stat. 1760, related to
    authorization of appropriations necessary to cover losses
    substained in revenue-producing activities, expenses incurred in
    non-revenue-producing activities, and an appraisal of necessary
    working capital.
      Section 1407h, acts June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 9, 63 Stat. 354;
    Sept. 2, 1958, Pub. L. 85-913, Sec. 6, 72 Stat. 1760, related to
    Board of Directors of Corporation.
      Section 1407i, act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 10, 63 Stat. 355;
    1970 Reorg. Plan No. 2, Sec. 102, eff. July 1, 1970, 35 F.R. 7959,
    84 Stat. 2085, related to transfer of functions, assets, and
    property of Virgin Islands Company to Corporation.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 14, 63 Stat. 356, which provided
    that act June 30, 1949, ch. 285 [see Short Title note below] become
    effective June 30, 1949, was repealed by Pub. L. 97-357, title III,
    Sec. 308(e), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.

                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 15, 63 Stat. 356, provided that
    act June 30, 1949, enacting sections 1407 to 1407i of this title
    and amending section 1401d of this title and section 846 of former
    Title 31, Money and Finance, could be cited as the "Virgin Islands
    Corporation Act", prior to repeal by Pub. L. 97-357, title III,
    Sec. 308(e), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.

                             SAVINGS PROVISION                         
      Section 308(e) of Pub. L. 97-357 provided in part: "That nothing
    in this subsection [repealing sections 1407 to 1407i of this title]
    shall affect the pension rights of former employees of the Virgin
    Islands Corporation."

      TRANSFER OF FACILITIES; INVESTMENT INCREASE; SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC
                                   POWER
      Pub. L. 85-913, Sec. 7, Sept. 2, 1958, 72 Stat. 1760, authorized
    the Secretary of the Navy to transfer and convey to the Virgin
    Islands Corporation, without reimbursement, the power-generating
    facilities located at the Marine Corps air facility and naval
    submarine base, Saint Thomas, Virgin Islands, together with all the
    land, buildings, structures, facilities, distribution lines, fuel
    tanks, and equipment appurtenant thereto and necessary for the
    operation thereof, with such transfer to be accomplished not later
    than June 30, 1969.

                   DISSOLUTION OF VIRGIN ISLANDS COMPANY               
      Act June 30, 1949, ch. 285, Sec. 11, 63 Stat. 355, authorized the
    Secretary of the Interior, the Under Secretary of the Interior, and
    the Governor of the Virgin Islands, as the stockholders of the
    Virgin Islands Company, a corporation created by ordinance of the
    Colonial Council for Saint Thomas and Saint John, Virgin Islands of
    the United States, to take such steps as may be appropriate to
    dissolve the Virgin Islands Company, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 97-
    357, title III, Sec. 308(e), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
                      SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING                  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408. Legislative authority to create authorities; appointment
      of members; powers of authorities

-STATUTE-
      The government of the Virgin Islands, through its legislative
    assembly, may grant to a public corporate authority existing or to
    be created through said assembly, exclusive authority to undertake
    slum clearance, urban redevelopment, urban renewal, and low-rent
    housing activities within the municipalities of the Virgin Islands.
    The legislative assembly may provide for the appointment and terms
    of office of the members of such authority and for the powers of
    such authority, including authority to accept whatever benefits the
    Federal Government may make available under the Housing Act of 1949
    (Public Law 171, Eighty-First Congress), as amended [42 U.S.C. 1441
    et seq.], or any other law, for projects contemplated by this Act,
    as amended, and to do all things, to exercise any and all powers,
    and to assume and fulfill any and all obligations, duties,
    responsibilities, and requirements, including but not limited to
    those relating to planning or zoning, necessary or desirable for
    receiving such Federal assistance, except that such authority shall
    not be given any power of taxation, nor any power to pledge the
    faith and credit of the people of the Virgin Islands for any loan
    whatever.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 301, 64 Stat. 346; Aug.
    11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(5), (7), (9), 69 Stat. 638.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Housing Act of 1949 (Public Law 171, Eighty-First Congress),
    as amended, referred to in text, is act July 15, 1949, ch. 338, 63
    Stat. 413, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter
    8A (Sec. 1441 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
    For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short
    Title note set out under section 1441 of Title 42 and Tables.
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted this subchapter and sections 480 to 480b, 483a,
    483b, 721 to 721b, and 910 to 910b of this title, amended sections
    481 to 483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as
    notes under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1955 - Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects, and
    inserted "as amended" after "Housing Act of 1949" and after "this
    Act".

                         URBAN RENEWAL ACTIVITIES                     
      Section 107(4) of act Aug. 11, 1955, amended the heading of title
    III of the Territorial Enabling Act of 1950, this subchapter, to
    insert the words "urban renewal" in order to make financial
    assistance available for urban renewal projects.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408a. Issuance of notes, bonds, and obligations

-STATUTE-
      The legislative assembly may authorize such authority, any
    provision of the Virgin Islands Organic Act [48 U.S.C. 1405 et
    seq.] or any other Act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding,
    to borrow money and to issue notes, bonds, and other obligations of
    such character and maturity, with such security, and in such manner
    as the legislative assembly may provide. Such notes, bonds, and
    other obligations shall not be a debt of the United States, or of
    the Virgin Islands or of any municipality or subdivision thereof,
    other than such authority, nor constitute "bonds and other
    obligations" within the meaning of sections 1403 to 1403b of this
    title, or a debt, indebtedness, or the borrowing of money within
    the meaning of any limitation or restriction on the issuance of
    notes, bonds, or other obligations contained in any laws of the
    United States applicable to the Virgin Islands or to any municipal
    corporation or other political subdivision or agency thereof.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 302, 64 Stat. 346.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Virgin Islands Organic Act, referred to in text, probably
    means the Organic Act of the Virgin Islands of the United States,
    act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, 49 Stat. 1807, as amended, which is
    classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 1405 et seq.) of this
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    section 1406m of this title and Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408b. Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc., by
      government and municipalities

-STATUTE-
      The government of the Virgin Islands, through its legislative
    assembly, may assist such authority with cash donations, loans,
    conveyances of real and personal property, facilities, and
    services, and otherwise, and may authorize municipalities and other
    subdivisions to make cash donations, loans, conveyances of real and
    personal property to such authority, and to take other action,
    including but not limited to, the making available or the
    furnishing of facilities and services, in aid of slum clearance,
    urban redevelopment, urban renewal, or low-rent housing projects.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 303, 64 Stat. 347; Aug.
    11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(5), 69 Stat. 638.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1955 - Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408c. Grants-in-aid by Federal Government

-STATUTE-
      Notwithstanding the limitation contained in the last sentence of
    section 110(d) [42 U.S.C. 1460(d)] or in any other provision of
    title I [42 U.S.C. 1450 et seq.] of the Housing Act of 1949 (Public
    Law 171, Eighty-first Congress), as amended, the Secretary of
    Housing and Urban Development is authorized to allow and credit to
    such authority as may be created for the Virgin Islands under this
    Act, as amended, (1) such local grants-in-aid as are otherwise
    approvable pursuant to the first sentence of said section 110(d)
    with respect to any slum clearance and urban redevelopment or urban
    renewal project or projects undertaken by such authority with
    Federal assistance made available under title I of the Housing Act
    of 1949, as amended, and (2) such grants-in-aid made or assistance
    given to the local community by any Federal department or agency
    pursuant to authority of law other than the Housing Act of 1949 [42
    U.S.C. 1441 et seq.] which would, if made or given by a State or
    local community, be approvable pursuant to said first sentence of
    section 110(d) with respect to any such project or projects so
    undertaken.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 304, 64 Stat. 347; Aug.
    11, 1955, ch. 783, title I, Sec. 107(6)-(9), 69 Stat. 638; Pub. L.
    90-19, Sec. 9, May 25, 1967, 81 Stat. 22.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Housing Act of 1949, referred to in text, is act July 15,
    1949, ch. 338, 63 Stat. 413, as amended, which is classified
    principally to chapter 8A (Sec. 1441 et seq.) of Title 42, The
    Public Health and Welfare. Title I of the Housing Act of 1949
    (Public Law 171, Eighty-first Congress) was classified generally to
    subchapter II (Sec. 1450 et seq.) of chapter 8A of Title 42, and
    was omitted from the Code pursuant to section 5316 of Title 42
    which terminated the authority to make grants or loans under such
    title I after Jan. 1, 1975. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1441 of
    Title 42 and Tables.
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted this subchapter and sections 480 to 480b, 483a,
    483b, 721 to 721b, and 910 to 910b of this title, amended sections
    481 to 483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as
    notes under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1967 - Pub. L. 90-19 substituted "Secretary of Housing and Urban
    Development" for "Housing and Home Finance Administrators."
      1955 - Act Aug. 11, 1955, included urban renewal projects, and
    inserted "as amended" after (Public Law 171, Eighty-first
    Congress), after "this Act", and after "Housing Act of 1949" in cl.
    (1).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408d. Ratification of prior acts

-STATUTE-
      All legislation heretofore enacted by the legislative assembly of
    the Virgin Islands dealing with any part of the subject matter of
    this Act and not inconsistent herewith is ratified and confirmed.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 305, 64 Stat. 347.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted this subchapter and sections 480 to 480b, 483a,
    483b, 721 to 721b, and 910 to 910b of this title, amended sections
    481 to 483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as
    notes under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1408e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - PUBLIC HOUSING

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1408e. Additional powers

-STATUTE-
      Powers granted in this Act shall be in addition to and not in
    derogation of any powers granted by other law to or for the benefit
    or assistance of any public corporate authority or municipality.

-SOURCE-
    (July 18, 1950, ch. 466, title III, Sec. 306, 64 Stat. 347.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, means act July 18, 1950, ch. 466,
    64 Stat. 344, as amended, known as the Territorial Enabling Act of
    1950, which enacted this subchapter and sections 480 to 480b, 483a,
    483b, 721 to 721b, and 910 to 910b of this title, amended sections
    481 to 483 and 722 of this title, and enacted provisions set out as
    notes under sections 480, 481, and 722 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER V - INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT

-HEAD-
                    SUBCHAPTER V - INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT                

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1409 to 1409j                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1409 to 1409j. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1409 to 1409j. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      308(d), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section 1409, acts Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 1, 58 Stat. 827;
    June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I, Sec. 103, 63 Stat. 380; 1950
    Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176, 64
    Stat. 1267, related to undertaking of certain useful construction
    projects to assist in internal development of Virgin Islands.
      Section 1409a, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 2, 58 Stat. 828,
    related to availability of funds for studies, plans, etc., for
    projects authorized.
      Section 1409b, acts Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 3, 58 Stat. 829;
    1950 Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176,
    64 Stat. 1267; July 12, 1982, Pub. L. 97-214, Sec. 10(b)(3), 96
    Stat. 175, related to acquisition of lands for projects authorized.
      Section 1409c, acts Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 4, 58 Stat. 829;
    June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I, Sec. 103, 63 Stat. 380; 1950
    Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3167, 64
    Stat. 1267, related to acceptance of funds and materials from
    Virgin Islands government for use in connection with projects
    authorized.
      Section 1409d, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 5, 58 Stat. 829;
    1950 Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176,
    64 Stat. 1267, required construction of projects authorized to be
    by contract, provided that repairs and improvements to existing
    structures be accomplished by employment of persons without regard
    to civil-service and classification laws.
      Section 1409e, acts Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 6, 58 Stat. 829;
    June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title I, Sec. 102, 63 Stat. 380; 1950
    Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176, 64
    Stat. 1267, related to procurement, warehousing and distribution of
    property, and establishment of a revolving fund for purchase,
    repairs, etc., of materials and supplies.
      Section 1409f, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 7, 58 Stat. 829,
    made inapplicable to projects authorized the provisions of section
    5 of title 41, relating to advertising for bids in purchase of
    materials and services, where aggregate amount is less than $500.
      Section 1409g, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 8, 58 Stat. 829,
    related to disability and death benefits for certain employees
    receiving compensation from funds appropriated under this
    subchapter, subject to certain exceptions.
      Section 1409h, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 9, 58 Stat. 829;
    1950 Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176,
    64 Stat. 1267, related to consideration and settlement of claims
    for injury to persons and damage to property, and limitations
    thereon.
      Section 1409i, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 10, 58 Stat. 830;
    1950 Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176,
    64 Stat. 1267, related to promulgation of rules and regulations.
      Section 1409j, act Dec. 20, 1944, ch. 615, Sec. 11, 58 Stat. 830;
    1950 Reorg. Plan No. 15, Sec. 1, eff. May 24, 1950, 15 F.R. 3176,
    64 Stat. 1267, related to authorization of appropriations for
    administrative and other expenses.

                 ESTIMATES AS NOT CONSTITUTING LIMITATIONS             
      Act July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, Sec. 1, 67 Stat. 275,
    provided in part that the estimated project costs specified in this
    subchapter not constitute limitations on amounts that could be
    expended for such projects.
      Similar provisions were contained in acts July 9, 1952, ch. 597,
    title I, Sec. 101, 66 Stat. 459; Aug. 31, 1951, ch. 375, title I,
    Sec. 101, 65 Stat. 264.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VI - AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VI - AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM

-HEAD-
                   SUBCHAPTER VI - AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1409m to 1409o                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 7 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VI - AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1409m to 1409o. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1409m to 1409o. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec.
      308(f), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section 1409m, act Oct. 29, 1951, ch. 603, Sec. 1, 65 Stat. 661,
    related to establishment and maintenance of an agricultural
    research and extension service program.
      Section 1409n, act Oct. 29, 1951, ch. 603, Sec. 2, 65 Stat. 662,
    related to transfer of functions, property, etc., of the
    agricultural experiment stations in Virgin Islands from Secretary
    of the Interior to Secretary of Agriculture.
      Section 1409o, act Oct. 29, 1951, ch. 603, Sec. 3, 65 Stat. 662,
    related to authorization of appropriations and use of funds.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                         CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS                     

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1411.       Guano districts; claim by United States.              
    1412.       Notice of discovery of guano and proofs.              
    1413.       Completion of proof on death of discoverer.           
    1414.       Exclusive privileges of discoverer.                   
    1415.       Restrictions upon exportation.                        
    1416.       Regulation of trade.                                  
    1417.       Criminal jurisdiction.                                
    1418.       Employment of land and naval forces in protection of
                 rights.                                              
    1419.       Right to abandon islands.                             

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1411                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1411. Guano districts; claim by United States

-STATUTE-
      Whenever any citizen of the United States discovers a deposit of
    guano on any island, rock, or key, not within the lawful
    jurisdiction of any other government, and not occupied by the
    citizens of any other government, and takes peaceable possession
    thereof, and occupies the same, such island, rock, or key may, at
    the discretion of the President, be considered as appertaining to
    the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5570.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5570 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 1,
    11 Stat. 119.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1412                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1412. Notice of discovery of guano and proofs

-STATUTE-
      The discoverer shall, as soon as practicable, give notice
    verified by affidavit, to the Department of State, of such
    discovery, occupation, and possession, describing the island, rock,
    or key, and the latitude and longitude thereof, as near as may be,
    and showing that such possession was taken in the name of the
    United States; and shall furnish satisfactory evidence to the State
    Department that such island, rock, or key was not, at the time of
    the discovery thereof, or of the taking possession and occupation
    thereof by the claimants, in the possession or occupation of any
    other government or of the citizens of any other government, before
    the same shall be considered as appertaining to the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5571.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5571 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 1,
    11 Stat. 119.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1413                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1413. Completion of proof on death of discoverer

-STATUTE-
      If the discoverer dies before perfecting proof of discovery or
    fully complying with the provisions of section 1412 of this title,
    his widow, heir, executor, or administrator shall be entitled to
    the benefits of such discovery, upon complying with the provisions
    of this chapter. Nothing herein shall be held to impair any rights
    of discovery or any assignment by a discoverer recognized prior to
    April 2, 1872, by the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5572.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5572 derived from act Apr. 2, 1872, ch. 81, Sec. 1, 17
    Stat. 48.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1414                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1414. Exclusive privileges of discoverer

-STATUTE-
      The discoverer, or his assigns, being citizens of the United
    States, may be allowed, at the pleasure of Congress, the exclusive
    right of occupying such island, rocks, or keys, for the purpose of
    obtaining guano, and of selling and delivering the same to citizens
    of the United States, to be used therein, and may be allowed to
    charge and receive for every ton thereof delivered alongside a
    vessel, in proper tubs, within reach of ship's tackle, a sum not
    exceeding $8 per ton for the best quality, or $4 for every ton
    taken while in its native place of deposit.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5573.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5573 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 2,
    11 Stat. 119.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1415                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1415. Restrictions upon exportation

-STATUTE-
      No guano shall be taken from any island, rock, or key mentioned
    in section 1411 of this title, except for the use of the citizens
    of the United States or of persons resident therein. The
    discoverer, or his widow, heir, executor, administrator, or
    assigns, shall enter into bond, in such penalty and with such
    sureties as may be required by the President, to deliver the guano
    to citizens of the United States, for the purpose of being used
    therein, and to none others, and at the price prescribed, and to
    provide all necessary facilities for that purpose within a time to
    be fixed in the bond; and any breach of the provisions thereof
    shall be deemed a forfeiture of all rights accruing under and by
    virtue of this chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5574.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5574 derived from acts Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 2,
    11 Stat. 119; July 28, 1866, ch. 298, Sec. 3, 14 Stat. 328; Apr. 2,
    1872, ch. 81, Sec. 1, 17 Stat. 48.
      An additional provision of R.S. Sec. 5574 suspending this section
    for 5 years from and after July 14, 1872, in relation to all
    persons who had complied with the provisions of that title of the
    Revised Statutes, was omitted as temporary.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1416                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1416. Regulation of trade

-STATUTE-
      The introduction of guano from such islands, rocks, or keys shall
    be regulated as in the coasting trade between different parts of
    the United States, and the same laws shall govern the vessels
    concerned therein.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5575.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5575 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 3,
    11 Stat. 120.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1417                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1417. Criminal jurisdiction

-STATUTE-
      All acts done, and offenses or crimes committed, on any island,
    rock, or key mentioned in section 1411 of this title, by persons
    who may land thereon, or in the waters adjacent thereto, shall be
    deemed committed on the high seas, on board a merchant ship or
    vessel belonging to the United States; and shall be punished
    according to the laws of the United States relating to such ships
    or vessels and offenses on the high seas, which laws for the
    purpose aforesaid are extended over such islands, rocks, and keys.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5576.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5576 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 6,
    11 Stat. 120.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1418                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1418. Employment of land and naval forces in protection of
      rights

-STATUTE-
      The President is authorized, at his discretion, to employ the
    land and naval forces of the United States to protect the rights of
    the discoverer or of his widow, heir, executor, administrator, or
    assigns.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5577.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5577 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 5,
    11 Stat. 120.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1419                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8 - GUANO ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1419. Right to abandon islands

-STATUTE-
      Nothing in this chapter contained shall be construed as obliging
    the United States to retain possession of the islands, rocks, or
    keys, after the guano shall have been removed from the same.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 5578.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 5578 derived from act Aug. 18, 1856, ch. 164, Sec. 4,
    11 Stat. 120.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 8A - GUAM                                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM

-HEAD-
                             CHAPTER 8A - GUAM                         


-MISC1-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 
    Sec.                                                     
    1421.       Territory included under name Guam.                   
    1421a.      Unincorporated territory; capital; powers of
                 government; suits against government; type of
                 government; supervision.                             
    1421b.      Bill of rights.                                       
    1421c.      Certain laws continued in force; modification or
                 repeal of laws.                                      
    1421d.      Salaries and allowances of officers and employees.    
    1421e.      Duty on articles.                                     
    1421f.      Title to property transferred.                        
    1421f-1.    Acknowledgement of deeds.                             
    1421g.      Establishment and maintenance of public bodies and
                 offices.                                             
    1421h.      Duties, taxes, and fees; proceeds collected to
                 constitute fund for benefit of Guam; prerequisites,
                 amount, etc., remitted prior to commencement of next
                 fiscal year.                                         
    1421i.      Income tax.                                           
    1421j.      Authorization of appropriations.                      
    1421k.      Designation of naval or military reservations; closed
                 port.                                                
    1421k-1 to 1421m. Repealed.                                       
    1421n.      Applicability of Federal copyright laws.              
    1421o.      Federal assistance for fire control, watershed
                 protection, and reforestation.                       
    1421p.      Authorization of appropriations.                      
    1421q.      Applicability of Federal laws.                        
    1421q-1.    Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1)
                 of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
                 Northern Mariana Islands.                            
    1421r.      Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Program.          

                   SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH               
    1422.       Governor and Lieutenant Governor; term of office;
                 qualifications; powers and duties; annual report to
                 Congress.                                            
    1422a.      Removal of Governor, Lieutenant Governor, or member of
                 legislature; referendum election.                    
    1422b.      Vacancy in office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor. 
    1422c.      Executive agencies and instrumentalities.             
    1422d.      Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
                 Guam to Inspector General, Department of the
                 Interior.                                            

                     SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                 
    1423.       Legislature of Guam.                                  
    1423a.      Power of legislature; limitation on indebtedness of
                 Guam; bond issues; guarantees for purchase by Federal
                 Financing Bank of Guam Power Authority bonds or other
                 obligations; interest rates; default.                
    1423b.      Selection and qualification of members; officers;
                 rules and regulations; quorum.                       
    1423c.      Privileges of members.                                
    1423d.      Oath of office.                                       
    1423e.      Prohibition against acceptance of salary increases or
                 newly created offices.                               
    1423f.      Qualifications of members.                            
    1423g.      Vacancies.                                            
    1423h.      Regular and special sessions.                         
    1423i.      Approval of bills.                                    
    1423j.      Authorization of appropriations.                      
    1423k.      Right of petition.                                    
    1423l.      Omitted.                                              

                       SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                   
    1424.       District Court of Guam; local courts; jurisdiction.   
    1424-1.     Jurisdiction and powers of local courts.              
    1424-2.     Relations between courts of United States and courts
                 of Guam.                                             
    1424-3.     Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
                 review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth
                 Circuit; rules; appeals to appellate court.          
    1424-4.     Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions.            
    1424a.      Repealed.                                             
    1424b.      Judge of District Court; appointment, tenure, removal,
                 and compensation; appointment of United States
                 attorney and marshal.                                
    1424c.      Review of claims respecting land on Guam.             

              SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL          
    1425.       Omitted.                                              
    1425a.      Legislative authority to create authorities;
                 appointment of members; powers of authorities.       
    1425b.      Issuance of notes, bonds, and obligations.            
    1425c.      Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc.             
    1425d.      Ratification of prior act.                            
    1425e.      Additional powers.                                    
    1426.       Repealed.                                             

                   SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND               
    1428.       Authorization of appropriations.                      
    1428a.      Submission of plan for use of funds; contents of plan;
                 term, interest rate, and premium charge of loan.     
    1428b.      Prerequisite for loan or loan guarantee; maximum
                 participation in available funds; reserves for loan
                 guarantees.                                          
    1428c.      Accounting procedures.                                
    1428d.      Report for inclusion in annual report by Governor.    
    1428e.      Audit of books and records of agency, or agencies,
                 administering loan funds.                            

         CONSTITUTIONS FOR VIRGIN ISLANDS AND GUAM: ESTABLISHMENT;
                        CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION
      Authorization for the peoples of the Virgin Islands and Guam to
    call constitutional conventions to draft constitutions for local
    self-government, see Pub. L. 94-584, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2899,
    set out as a note under section 1541 of this title.

                      DELEGATE TO CONGRESS FROM GUAM                  
      Provisions respecting representation in Congress by a Delegate
    from Guam to the House of Representatives, see section 1711 et seq.
    of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421. Territory included under name Guam

-STATUTE-
      The territory ceded to the United States in accordance with the
    provisions of the Treaty of Peace between the United States and
    Spain, signed at Paris, December 10, 1898, and proclaimed April 11,
    1899, and known as the island of Guam in the Marianas Islands,
    shall continue to be known as Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 2, 64 Stat. 384.)


-MISC1-
          EFFECTIVE DATE; CONTINUATION OF FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION      
      Section 34 of act Aug. 1, 1950, provided that on the 21st day of
    July 1950, the authority and powers conferred by this chapter would
    come into force, and authorized the President, for a period not to
    exceed one year from Aug. 1, 1950, to continue the administration
    of Guam in all or in some respects as provided by law, Executive
    order, or local regulation in force on Aug. 1, 1950. It further
    authorized the President in his discretion to place in operation
    all or some of the provisions of this chapter if practicable before
    the expiration of the period of one year.

                       SHORT TITLE OF 2002 AMENDMENT                   
      Pub. L. 107-212, Sec. 1, Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1051, provided
    that: "This Act [amending section 1421i of this title and enacting
    provisions set out as a note under section 1421i of this title] may
    be cited as the 'Guam Foreign Investment Equity Act'."

                       SHORT TITLE OF 1998 AMENDMENT                   
      Pub. L. 105-291, Sec. 1, Oct. 27, 1998, 112 Stat. 2785, provided
    that: "This Act [amending sections 1421g, 1423a, and 1423b of this
    title] may be cited as the 'Guam Organic Act Amendments of 1998'."

                      SHORT TITLE OF 1968 AMENDMENTS                  
      Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 1, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1172, provided
    that: "This Act [enacting sections 1428 to 1428e of this title] may
    be cited as the 'Guam Development Fund Act of 1968'."
      Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 14, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 848, provided
    that: "This Act [enacting section 1422d of this title and section
    335 of Title 10, Armed Forces, amending sections 1421a, 1421b,
    1421c, 1421d, 1421f, 1422, 1422a, 1422b, 1422c, 1423b, 1423h, and
    1423i of this title, and enacting provisions set out as notes under
    this section and section 1422 of this title] may be cited as the
    'Guam Elective Governor Act'."

                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Section 1 of act Aug. 1, 1950, provided that: "This Act [enacting
    this chapter and amending section 703 of Title 8, Aliens and
    Nationality] may be cited as the 'Organic Act of Guam'."

       POLITICAL UNION BETWEEN TERRITORY OF GUAM AND COMMONWEALTH OF
       NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS, EFFECTS ON RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS
      In event of political union between Guam and the Commonwealth of
    the Northern Mariana Islands, there shall be no diminution of
    rights or entitlements, nor any adverse effects on any funds
    authorized or appropriated, see section 1844 of this title.

     ANALYSIS OF CAPITAL INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS OF GUAM FOR 1985 TO 1990
                  TIMEFRAME; REPORT TO CONGRESS; CONTENTS
      Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 1(a)(6), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 487,
    provided that the Secretary prepare and transmit to the Congress no
    later than July 1, 1979, an analysis of the capital infrastructure
    needs of Guam for the 1985 to 1990 timeframe.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of Guam, see
    section 1701 et seq. of this title.


-EXEC-
          EX. ORD. NO. 10077. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATION OF GUAM      
      Ex. Ord. No. 10077, eff. Sept. 7, 1949, 14 F.R. 5523, as amended
    by Ex. Ord. No. 10137, eff. June 30, 1950, 15 F.R. 4241, provided:
      1. The administration of the Island of Guam is hereby transferred
    from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior,
    such transfer to become effective on August 1, 1950.
      2. The Department of the Navy and the Department of the Interior
    shall proceed with the plans for the transfer of the administration
    of the Island of Guam as embodied in the above mentioned memorandum
    of understanding between the two departments.
      3. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes
    effective, the Secretary of the Interior shall take such action as
    may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable
    law, for the administration of civil government on the Island of
    Guam.
      4. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are
    authorized and directed to cooperate with the Departments of the
    Navy and Interior in the effectuation of the provisions of this
    order.
      5. The said Executive Order No. 108-A of December 23, 1898, is
    revoked, effective July 1, 1950.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421a. Unincorporated territory; capital; powers of
      government; suits against government; type of government;
      supervision

-STATUTE-
      Guam is declared to be an unincorporated territory of the United
    States and the capital and seat of government thereof shall be
    located at the city of Agana, Guam. The government of Guam shall
    have the powers set forth in this chapter, shall have power to sue
    by such name, and, with the consent of the legislature evidenced by
    enacted law, may be sued upon any contract entered into with
    respect to, or any tort committed incident to, the exercise by the
    government of Guam of any of its lawful powers. The government of
    Guam shall consist of three branches, executive, legislative, and
    judicial, and its relations with the Federal Government in all
    matters not the program responsibility of another Federal
    department or agency, shall be under the general administrative
    supervision of the Secretary of the Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 3, 64 Stat. 384; Pub. L. 86-316, Sept.
    21, 1959, 73 Stat. 588; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 12(a), Sept. 11, 1968,
    82 Stat. 847.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 substituted provisions that all matters
    concerning Guam which are not the program responsibility of other
    Federal departments or agencies be under the general administrative
    supervision of the Secretary of the Interior for provisions that
    the general administrative supervision of matters concerning Guam
    be under the head of such civilian department or agency of the
    Government of the United States as the President might direct.
      1959 - Pub. L. 86-316 permitted government of Guam, with consent
    of legislature, to be sued.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421b. Bill of rights

-STATUTE-
      (a) No law shall be enacted in Guam respecting an establishment
    of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, or abridging
    the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the right of the people
    peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress
    of their grievances.
      (b) No soldier shall, in time of peace, be quartered in any
    house, without the consent of the owner, nor in time of war, but in
    a manner to be prescribed by law.
      (c) The right of the people to be secure in their persons,
    houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
    seizures, shall not be violated; and no warrant for arrest or
    search shall issue but upon probable cause, supported by oath or
    affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched
    and the person or things to be seized.
      (d) No person shall be subject for the same offense to be twice
    put in jeopardy of punishment; nor shall he be compelled in any
    criminal case to be a witness against himself.
      (e) No person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property
    without due process of law.
      (f) Private property shall not be taken for public use without
    just compensation.
      (g) In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall have the right
    to a speedy and public trial; to be informed of the nature and
    cause of the accusation and to have a copy thereof; to be
    confronted with the witnesses against him; to have compulsory
    process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the
    assistance of counsel for his defense.
      (h) Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines
    imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted.
      (i) Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, except as a
    punishment for crime whereof the party shall have been duly
    convicted, shall exist in Guam.
      (j) No bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the
    obligation of contracts shall be enacted.
      (k) No person shall be imprisoned for debt.
      (l) The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be
    suspended, unless, when in cases of rebellion or invasion or
    imminent danger thereof, the public safety shall require it.
      (m) No qualification with respect to property, income, political
    opinion, or any other matter apart from citizenship, civil
    capacity, and residence shall be imposed upon any voter.
      (n) No discrimination shall be made in Guam against any person on
    account of race, language, or religion, nor shall the equal
    protection of the laws be denied.
      (o) No person shall be convicted of treason against the United
    States unless on the testimony of two witnesses to the same overt
    act, or on confession in open court.
      (p) No public money or property shall ever be appropriated,
    supplied, donated, or used, directly or indirectly, for the use,
    benefit, or support of any sect, church, denomination, sectarian
    institution, or association, or system of religion, or for the use,
    benefit, or support of any priest, preacher, minister, or other
    religious teacher or dignitary as such.
      (q) The employment of children under the age of fourteen years in
    any occupation injurious to health or morals or hazardous to life
    or limb is hereby prohibited.
      (r) There shall be compulsory education for all children, between
    the ages of six and sixteen years.
      (s) No religious test shall ever be required as a qualification
    to any office or public trust under the government of Guam.
      (t) No person who advocates, or who aids or belongs to any party,
    organization, or association which advocates, the overthrow by
    force or violence of the government of Guam or of the United States
    shall be qualified to hold any public office of trust or profit
    under the government of Guam.
      (u) The following provisions of and amendments to the
    Constitution of the United States are hereby extended to Guam to
    the extent that they have not been previously extended to that
    territory and shall have the same force and effect there as in the
    United States or in any State of the United States: article I,
    section 9, clauses 2 and 3; article IV, section 1 and section 2,
    clause 1; the first to ninth amendments inclusive; the thirteenth
    amendment; the second sentence of section 1 of the fourteenth
    amendment; and the fifteenth and nineteenth amendments.
      All laws enacted by Congress with respect to Guam and all laws
    enacted by the territorial legislature of Guam which are
    inconsistent with the provisions of this subsection are repealed to
    the extent of such inconsistency.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 5, 64 Stat. 385; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    10, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 847.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (u). Pub. L. 90-497 added subsec. (u).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 10 of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-497,
    which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421c. Certain laws continued in force; modification or repeal
      of laws

-STATUTE-
      (a) The laws of Guam in force on August 1, 1950, except as
    amended by this chapter, are continued in force, subject to
    modification or repeal by the Congress of the United States or the
    Legislature of Guam, and all laws of Guam inconsistent with the
    provisions of this chapter are repealed to the extent of such
    inconsistency.
      (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 7, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat.
    847.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 25, 64 Stat. 390; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    7, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 847.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 90-497 repealed subsec. (b) which
    prohibited the application to Guam of laws of the United States not
    specifically made applicable to Guam and established a commission
    to determine which laws were applicable to Guam and which were not.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 7 of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-497,
    which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421d. Salaries and allowances of officers and employees

-STATUTE-
      The salaries and travel allowances of the Governor, Lieutenant
    Governor, the heads of the executive departments, other officers
    and employees of the government of Guam, and the members of the
    legislature, shall be paid by the government of Guam at rates
    prescribed by the laws of Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 26, 64 Stat. 391; Aug. 1, 1956, ch.
    852, Sec. 21, 70 Stat. 911; Pub. L. 89-100, July 30, 1965, 79 Stat.
    424; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 9, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 847.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 9(a), repealed subsec.
    (c) which provided for the payment of transportation expenses by
    the United States of all officers and employees of the government
    of Guam if their homes were outside Guam.
      Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 9(b), removed subsection designations and
    substituted provisions that the government of Guam pay the salaries
    and travel expenses of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, heads of
    executive departments, members of the legislature, and government
    officers and employees at rates prescribed by the laws of Guam for
    provisions setting the salary for the Governor and Secretary of
    Guam and allowing for the payment of transportation expenses and
    salaries of certain officers and employees by the United States.
      1965 - Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 89-100 substituted provisions
    empowering the government of Guam to fix and pay legislative
    salaries and expenses for provisions which specifically fixed a sum
    of $15 per day to be paid each member for every day the legislature
    is in session payable out of Congressional appropriations and which
    required all other expenses to be paid by the government of Guam.
      1956 - Subsec. (a). Act Aug. 1, 1956, substituted "the Governor
    of the Virgin Islands in the Executive Pay Act of 1949, as
    heretofore or hereafter amended," for "Governors of Territories and
    possessions in the Executive Pay Act of 1949, but not to exceed
    $13,125,".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 9(a) of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made
    by that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    497, which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.
      Section 9(b) of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made
    by that section is effective Jan. 4, 1971.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421e. Duty on articles

-STATUTE-
      All articles coming into the United States from Guam shall be
    subject to or exempt from duty as provided for in section 1301a
    (!1) of title 19.


-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 27, 64 Stat. 392; Sept. 1, 1954, ch.
    1213, title IV, Sec. 402(b), 68 Stat. 1140.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 1301a of title 19, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 87-456, title III, Sec. 301(a), May 24, 1962, 76 Stat. 75.
    See General Headnote 3(a) under section 1202 of Title 19, Customs
    Duties.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1954 - Act Sept. 1, 1954, subjected Guam to the general provision
    for importations from insular possessions contained in section
    1301a of title 19.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1954 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 601 of act Sept. 1, 1954, 68 Stat. 1141, provided that:
    "Titles II, III, IV, and VI of this Act [enacting section 1301a of
    Title 19, Customs Duties, amending sections 1421e and 1644 of this
    title and sections 160, 161, 1001, and 1201 of Title 19] shall be
    effective on and after the thirtieth day following the date of the
    enactment of this Act [Sept. 1, 1954]".

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421f                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421f. Title to property transferred

-STATUTE-
    (a) Property employed by naval government of Guam
      The title to all property, real and personal, owned by the United
    States and employed by the naval government of Guam in the
    administration of the civil affairs of the inhabitants of Guam,
    including automotive and other equipment, tools and machinery,
    water and sewerage facilities, bus lines and other utilities,
    hospitals, schools, and other buildings, shall be transferred to
    the government of Guam within ninety days after August 1, 1950.
    (b) Other property not reserved
      All other property, real and personal, owned by the United States
    in Guam, not reserved by the President of the United States within
    ninety days after August 1, 1950, is placed under the control of
    the government of Guam, to be administered for the benefit of the
    people of Guam, and the legislature shall have authority, subject
    to such limitations as may be imposed upon its acts by this chapter
    or subsequent Act of the Congress, to legislate with respect to
    such property, real and personal, in such manner as it may deem
    desirable.
    (c) Secretary of the Interior; sale or lease
      All property owned by the United States in Guam, the title to
    which is not transferred to the government of Guam by subsection
    (a) of this section, or which is not placed under the control of
    the government of Guam by subsection (b) of this section, is
    transferred to the administrative supervision of the Secretary of
    the Interior, except as the President may from time to time
    otherwise prescribe: Provided, That the Secretary of the Interior
    shall be authorized to lease or to sell, on such terms as he may
    deem in the public interest, any property, real and personal, of
    the United States under his administrative supervision in Guam not
    needed for public purposes.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 28, 64 Stat. 392; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    12(b), Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 848.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 90-497 substituted "The Secretary of
    the Interior" for "the head of the department or agency designated
    by the President under section 1421a of this title" in text of
    subsec. (c) and "the Secretary of the Interior" for "the head of
    such department or agency" in proviso.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.


-EXEC-
      EX. ORD. NO. 10178. RESERVATION OF PROPERTY IN GUAM FOR USE OF
                               UNITED STATES
      Ex. Ord. No. 10178, eff. Oct. 30, 1950, 15 F.R. 7313, provided:
      NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
    said section 28 of the Organic Act of Guam [this section] and as
    President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
      1. The following-described real and personal property of the
    United States in Guam is hereby reserved to the United States and
    placed under the control and jurisdiction of the Secretary of the
    Navy: Provided, That the Secretary of the Navy shall transfer such
    portions of such property to the Department of the Army, the
    Department of the Air Force, and the Coast Guard as may be required
    for their respective purposes:
      (a) All of that real property in Guam situated within the
    perimeter areas defined in the following-designated condemnation
    proceedings in the Superior Court of Guam, being the same property
    quitclaimed by the Naval Government of Guam to the United States of
    America by deed dated July 31, 1950, and filed for record with the
    Land Registrar of Guam on August 4, 1950 (Presentation No. 22063):


     Condemnation       Perimeter                   Facility             
      proceedings          area                                          
       Civil No.                                                         
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         Acres                              
              2-48        4,566.757    North Field.                      
              5-48            9.372    Mt. Santa Rosa Water Reservoir    
                                        and Supply Lines.                
              6-48            5.990    Mt. Santa Rosa-Marbo Water Lines. 
              7-48            5.990    Tumon Maui Well Site.             
              2-49        4,803.000    Naval Ammunition Depot.           
              3-49           44.651    Primary Transmission Line.        
              4-49           12.169    Mt. Santa Rosa-Marbo Water Line   
                                        Easement.                        
              5-49        6,332.000    Apra Harbor Reservation.          
              2-50            6.450    Aceorp Tunnel.                    
              3-50           35.391    Camp Dealy.                       
              4-50            0.637    Tumon Bay Recreation Area Utility 
                                        Lines.                           
              5-50           24.914    Agana Springs.                    
              6-50           41.360    Asan Point Tank Farm.             
              7-50           85.032    Asan Point Housing.               
              8-50          137.393    Medical Center.                   
              9-50           45.630    Agafo Gumas.                      
             10-50        4,798.682    Naval Communication Station.      
             11-50           11.726    Nimitz Beach.                     
             12-50          800.443    Command Center.                   
             13-50        4,901.100    Tarague Natural Wells.            
             14-50            5.945    Agana Diesel Electric Generating  
                                        plant.                           
             15-50           23.708    Mt. Santa Rosa Haul Road, Water   
                                        Reservoir and Supply Lines, VHF  
                                        Relay Station, Mt. Santa         
                                        Rosa-Marbo Water Line.           
             16-50        4,562.107    Northwest Air Force Base.         
             18-50           60.480    Marbo Base Command Area - Sewage  
                                        Disposal.                        
             19-50           21.695    Loran Station, Cocos Island.      
             20-50           15.322    Av-Gas Tank Farm 1B12.            
             21-50        1,820.148    Proposed Boundary of NAS Agana,   
                                        Housing Area 1B7.                
             22-50           37.519    C. A. A. Site (Area 1B90.)        
             23-50            3.575    Tumon Maui Well (Water Tunnel).   
             24-50           49.277    Tumon Bay Recreation Area (Road   
                                        and AV-Gas Fuel Line Parcel 1B1. 
             25-50            0.208    Utility Easement from Rt. 1B1 to  
                                        Rt. 1B6 Coontz Junction).        
             26-50           65.300    Tumon Bay Recreation Area (Area   
                                        1B78).                           
             27-50        2,497.400    Marbo Base Command.               
             28-50            0.918    Mt. Tenjo VHF Station Site.       
             29-50          285.237    Sasa Valley Tank Farm (Area 1B78).
             30-50           17.793    Sub Transmission System Piti      
                                        Steam Plant to Command Center.   
             31-50           28.888    Route 1B1 (Marine Drive)          
                                        (Portion).                       
             32-50           94.000    Sub Transmission System (34 KV    
                                        Line) Piti Steam Plant to Agana  
                                        Diesel Plant and POL System Sasa 
                                        Valley Tank Farm to NAS Agana.   
             33-50          953.000    Harmon Air Force Base.            
             34-50        2,922.000    Radio Barrigada.                  
             35-50           25.000    AACS Radio Range (Area 1B30).     
             36-50           37.000    Water Line Apra Heights Reservoir 
                                        to Fena Pump Station and Av-Gas  
                                        Fuel System.                     
             37-50        2,185.000    Fena River Reservoir.             
    --------------------------------------------------------------------

      (b) The road system and utilities systems described in the said
    deed between the Naval Government of Guam and the United States of
    America dated July 31, 1950.
      (c) The following-described areas: Mount Lam Lam Light; Rear
    Range Light; Mount Aluton Light; Area Number 35 Culverts; Mount
    Santa Rosa Light; 36 acres of Camp Witek; Adelup Reservoir;
    Tripartite Seismograph Station Site, Land Unit M, Section 2, Land
    Square 20; the Power Sub-station located on Lot 266, Municipality
    of Agat adjacent to Erskine Drive, City of Agat.
      (d) Lots 2285-5 and 2306-1 in Barrigada.
      (e) All personal property relating to or used in connection with
    any of the above-described real property.
      2. The following-described real property of the United States in
    Guam is hereby reserved to the United States and transferred to the
    administrative supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, and
    shall be available for disposition by the Secretary of the Interior
    in his discretion under section 28(c) of the said Organic Act of
    Guam [subsection (c) of this section]:
      All of those lands which have been selected by the Secretary of
    the Navy for transfer or sale pursuant to the act of November 15,
    1945, 59 Stat. 584, to persons in replacement of lands acquired for
    military or naval purposes in Guam, a list and description of such
    lands being on file in the Department of the Navy.
      3. In addition to the personal property described in paragraph
    1(e) hereof, there is hereby reserved to the United States all
    personal property of the United States in Guam, except that which
    is transferred to the government of Guam by or pursuant to section
    28 (a) of the Organic Act of Guam, which on the date of this order
    is in the custody or control of the Department of the Army, the
    Department of the Navy, the Department of the Air Force, the Coast
    Guard, or any other department or agency of the United States; and
    all such personal property shall remain in the custody and control
    of the department or agency having custody and control thereof on
    the date of this order.
                                                         Harry S Truman.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421f-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421f-1. Acknowledgment of deeds

-STATUTE-
      Deeds and other instruments affecting land situate in the
    District of Columbia or any Territory of the United States may be
    acknowledged in the islands of Guam and Samoa or in the Canal Zone
    before any notary public or judge appointed therein by proper
    authority, or by any officer therein who has ex officio the powers
    of a notary public: Provided, That the certificate by such notary
    in Guam, Samoa, or the Canal Zone, as the case may be, shall be
    accompanied by the certificate of the governor or acting governor
    of such place to the effect that the notary taking said
    acknowledgment was in fact the officer he purported to be; and any
    deeds or other instruments affecting lands so situate, so
    acknowledged since the first day of January, 1905, and accompanied
    by such certificate shall have the same effect as such deeds or
    other instruments hereafter so acknowledged and certified.

-SOURCE-
    (June 28, 1906, ch. 3585, 34 Stat. 552.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in text, see section
    3602(b) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.
      Section is also classified to section 1663 of this title.
      Section was formerly classified to sections 1358 and 1432 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421g                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421g. Establishment and maintenance of public bodies and
      offices

-STATUTE-
    (a) Public health services
      Subject to the laws of Guam, the Governor shall establish,
    maintain, and operate public-health services in Guam, including
    hospitals, dispensaries, and quarantine stations, at such places in
    Guam as may be necessary, and he shall promulgate quarantine and
    sanitary regulations for the protection of Guam against the
    importation and spread of disease.
    (b) Public educational system
      The Government of Guam shall provide an adequate public
    educational system of Guam, and to that end shall establish,
    maintain, and operate public schools according to the laws of Guam.
    (c) Office of Public Prosecutor; Office of Public Auditor
      The Government of Guam may by law establish an Office of Public
    Prosecutor and an Office of Public Auditor. The Public Prosecutor
    and Public Auditor may be removed as provided by the laws of Guam.
    (d) Attorney General
      (1) The Attorney General of Guam shall be the Chief Legal Officer
    of the Government of Guam. At such time as the Office of the
    Attorney General of Guam shall next become vacant, the Attorney
    General of Guam shall be appointed by the Governor of Guam with the
    advice and consent of the legislature, and shall serve at the
    pleasure of the Governor of Guam.
      (2) Instead of an appointed Attorney General, the legislature
    may, by law, provide for the election of the Attorney General of
    Guam by the qualified voters of Guam in general elections after
    1998 in which the Governor of Guam is elected. The term of an
    elected Attorney General shall be 4 years. The Attorney General may
    be removed by the people of Guam according to the procedures
    specified in section 1422d of this title or may be removed for
    cause in accordance with procedures established by the legislature
    in law. A vacancy in the office of an elected Attorney General
    shall be filled - 
        (A) by appointment by the Governor of Guam if such vacancy
      occurs less than 6 months before a general election for the
      Office of Attorney General of Guam; or
        (B) by a special election held no sooner than 3 months after
      such vacancy occurs and no later than 6 months before a general
      election for Attorney General of Guam, and by appointment by the
      Governor of Guam pending a special election under this
      subparagraph.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 29, 64 Stat. 392; Pub. L. 99-396,
    Secs. 5, 13, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 839, 842; Pub. L. 105-291,
    Sec. 2, Oct. 27, 1998, 112 Stat. 2785.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 105-291 added subsec. (d).
      1986 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 13(a)(1), substituted
    "according to the laws of Guam" for "at such places in Guam as may
    be necessary".
      Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 5, substituted "Government of Guam" for
    "Governor".
      Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 13(a)(2), added subsec. (c).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421h                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421h. Duties, taxes, and fees; proceeds collected to
      constitute fund for benefit of Guam; prerequisites, amount, etc.,
      remitted prior to commencement of next fiscal year

-STATUTE-
      All customs duties and Federal income taxes derived from Guam,
    the proceeds of all taxes collected under the internal-revenue laws
    of the United States on articles produced in Guam and transported
    to the United States, its Territories, or possessions, or consumed
    in Guam, and the proceeds of any other taxes which may be levied by
    the Congress on the inhabitants of Guam (including, but not limited
    to, compensation paid to members of the Armed Forces and pensions
    paid to retired civilians and military employees of the United
    States, or their survivors, who are residents of, or who are
    domiciled in, Guam), and all quarantine, passport, immigration, and
    naturalization fees collected in Guam shall be covered into the
    treasury of Guam and held in account for the government of Guam,
    and shall be expended for the benefit and government of Guam in
    accordance with the annual budgets; except that nothing in this
    chapter shall be construed to apply to any tax imposed by chapter 2
    or 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.,
    3101 et seq.]. Beginning as soon as the government of Guam enacts
    legislation establishing a fiscal year commencing on October 1 and
    ending on September 30, the Secretary of the Treasury, prior to the
    commencement of any fiscal year, shall remit to the government of
    Guam the amount of duties, taxes, and fees which the governor of
    Guam, with the concurrence of the government comptroller of Guam,
    has estimated will be collected in or derived from Guam under this
    section during the next fiscal year, except for those sums covered
    directly upon collection into the treasury of Guam. The Secretary
    of the Treasury shall deduct from or add to the amounts so remitted
    the difference between the amount of duties, taxes, and fees
    actually collected during the prior fiscal year and the amount of
    such duties, taxes, and fees as estimated and remitted at the
    beginning of that prior fiscal year, including any deductions which
    may be required as a result of the operation of Public Law 94-395
    (90 Stat. 1199) or Public Law 88-170, as amended (82 Stat. 863).

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 30, 64 Stat. 392; Pub. L. 86-778,
    title I, Sec. 103(u), Sept. 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 941; Pub. L. 95-348,
    Sec. 1(c), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 488; Pub. L. 98-454, title VI,
    Sec. 601(h), Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1736; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2,
    Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The internal-revenue laws of the United States, referred to in
    text, are classified generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
      Public Law 94-395 (90 Stat. 1199), referred to in text, was
    enacted Sept. 3, 1976, and amended section 1423a of this title.
      Public Law 88-170, as amended (82 Stat. 863), referred to in
    text, is Pub. L. 88-170, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 302, as amended by
    Pub. L. 90-511, Sept. 24, 1968, 82 Stat. 863, which is not
    classified to the Code.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal Revenue Code of 1986"
    for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954".
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 inserted "(including, but not limited to,
    compensation paid to members of the Armed Forces and pensions paid
    to retired civilians and military employees of the United States,
    or their survivors, who are residents of, or who are domiciled in,
    Guam)" after "inhabitants of Guam" in first sentence.
      1978 - Pub. L. 95-348 inserted provisions relating to
    authorization, amount, computation, etc., of remittance, prior to
    commencement of any fiscal year, of duties, taxes, and fees to be
    collected in or derived from Guam under this section during that
    next fiscal year.
      1960 - Pub. L. 86-778 inserted clause providing that nothing in
    this chapter shall be construed to apply to any tax imposed by
    chapter 2 or 21 of title 26.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421i                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421i. Income tax

-STATUTE-
    (a) Applicability of Federal laws; separate tax
      The income-tax laws in force in the United States of America and
    those which may hereafter be enacted shall be held to be likewise
    in force in Guam: Provided, That notwithstanding any other
    provision of law, the Legislature of Guam may levy a separate tax
    on all taxpayers in an amount not to exceed 10 per centum of their
    annual income tax obligation to the Government of Guam.
    (b) Guam Territorial income tax
      The income-tax laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a)
    of this section shall be deemed to impose a separate Territorial
    income tax, payable to the government of Guam, which tax is
    designated the "Guam Territorial income tax".
    (c) Enforcement of tax
      The administration and enforcement of the Guam Territorial income
    tax shall be performed by or under the supervision of the Governor.
    Any function needful to the administration and enforcement of the
    income-tax laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a) of this
    section shall be performed by any officer or employee of the
    government of Guam duly authorized by the Governor (either
    directly, or indirectly by one or more redelegations of authority)
    to perform such function.
    (d) "Income-tax laws" defined; administration and enforcement;
      rules and regulations
      (1) The income-tax laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection
    (a) of this section include but are not limited to the following
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, where not
    manifestly inapplicable or incompatible with the intent of this
    section: Subtitle A [26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.] (not including chapter 2
    [26 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.] and section 931 [26 U.S.C. 931]); chapters
    24 and 25 of subtitle C [26 U.S.C. 3401 et seq. and 3501 et seq.],
    with reference to the collection of income tax at source on wages;
    and all provisions of subtitle F [26 U.S.C. 6001 et seq.] which
    apply to the income tax, including provisions as to crimes, other
    offenses, and forfeitures contained in chapter 75 [26 U.S.C. 7201
    et seq.]. For the period after 1950 and prior to the effective date
    of the repeal of any provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939
    which corresponds to one or more of those provisions of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which are included in the income-tax
    laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
    such income-tax laws include but are not limited to such provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939.
      (2) The Governor or his delegate shall have the same
    administrative and enforcement powers and remedies with regard to
    the Guam Territorial income tax as the Secretary of the Treasury,
    and other United States officials of the executive branch, have
    with respect to the United States income tax. Needful rules and
    regulations not inconsistent with the regulations prescribed under
    section 7654(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C.
    7654(e)] for enforcement of the Guam Territorial income tax shall
    be prescribed by the Governor. The Governor or his delegate shall
    have authority to issue, from time to time, in whole or in part,
    the text of the income-tax laws in force in Guam pursuant to
    subsection (a) of this section.
      (3) In applying as the Guam Territorial income tax the income-tax
    laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
    the rate of tax under sections 871, 881, 884, 1441, 1442, 1443,
    1445, and 1446 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 871,
    881, 884, 1441, 1442, 1443, 1445, and 1446] on any item of income
    from sources within Guam shall be the same as the rate which would
    apply with respect to such item were Guam treated as part of the
    United States for purposes of the treaty obligations of the United
    States. The preceding sentence shall not apply to determine the
    rate of tax on any item of income received from a Guam payor if,
    for any taxable year, the taxes of the Guam payor were rebated
    under Guam law. For purposes of this subsection, the term "Guam
    payor" means the person from whom the item of income would be
    deemed to be received for purposes of claiming treaty benefits were
    Guam treated as part of the United States.
    (e) Substitution of terms
      In applying as the Guam Territorial income tax the income-tax
    laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
    except where it is manifestly otherwise required, the applicable
    provisions of the Internal Revenue Codes of 1986 and 1939, shall be
    read so as to substitute "Guam" for "United States", "Governor or
    his delegate" for "Secretary or his delegate", "Governor or his
    delegate" for "Commissioner of Internal Revenue" and "Collector of
    Internal Revenue", "District Court of Guam" for "district court"
    and with other changes in nomenclature and other language,
    including the omission of inapplicable language, where necessary to
    effect the intent of this section.
    (f) Criminal offenses; prosecution
      Any act or failure to act with respect to the Guam Territorial
    income tax which constitutes a criminal offense under chapter 75 of
    subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 7201 et
    seq.], or the corresponding provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
    of 1939, as included in the income-tax laws in force in Guam
    pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, shall be an offense
    against the government of Guam and may be prosecuted in the name of
    the government of Guam by the appropriate officers thereof.
    (g) Liens
      The government of Guam shall have a lien with respect to the Guam
    Territorial income tax in the same manner and with the same effect,
    and subject to the same conditions, as the United States has a lien
    with respect to the United States income tax. Such lien in respect
    of the Guam Territorial income tax shall be enforceable in the name
    of and by the government of Guam. Where filing of a notice of lien
    is prescribed by the income-tax laws in force in Guam pursuant to
    subsection (a) of this section, such notice shall be filed in the
    Office of the Clerk of the District Court of Guam.
    (h) Jurisdiction of District Court; suits for recovery or
      collection of taxes; payment of judgment
      (1) Notwithstanding any provision of section 1424 of this title
    or any other provision of law to the contrary, the District Court
    of Guam shall have exclusive original jurisdiction over all
    judicial proceedings in Guam, both criminal and civil, regardless
    of the degree of the offense or of the amount involved, with
    respect to the Guam Territorial income tax.
      (2) Suits for the recovery of any Guam Territorial income tax
    alleged to have been erroneously or illegally assessed or
    collected, or of any penalty claimed to have been collected without
    authority, or of any sum alleged to have been excessive or in any
    manner wrongfully collected, under the income-tax laws in force in
    Guam, pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, may, regardless
    of the amount of claim, be maintained against the government of
    Guam subject to the same statutory requirements as are applicable
    to suits for the recovery of such amounts maintained against the
    United States in the United States district courts with respect to
    the United States income tax. When any judgment against the
    government of Guam under this paragraph has become final, the
    Governor shall order the payment of such judgments out of any
    unencumbered funds in the treasury of Guam.
      (3) Execution shall not issue against the Governor or any officer
    or employee of the government of Guam on a final judgment in any
    proceeding against him for any acts or for the recovery of money
    exacted by or paid to him and subsequently paid into the treasury
    of Guam, in performing his official duties under the income-tax
    laws in force in Guam pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
    if the court certifies that - 
        (A) probable cause existed; or
        (B) such officer or employee acted under the directions of the
      Governor or his delegate.

      When such certificate has been issued, the Governor shall order
    the payment of such judgment out of any unencumbered funds in the
    treasury of Guam.
      (4) A civil action for the collection of the Guam Territorial
    income tax, together with fines, penalties, and forfeitures, or for
    the recovery of any erroneous refund of such tax, may be brought in
    the name of and by the government of Guam in the District Court of
    Guam or in any district court of the United States or in any court
    having the jurisdiction of a district court of the United States.
      (5) The jurisdiction conferred upon the District Court of Guam by
    this subsection shall not be subject to transfer to any other court
    by the legislature, notwithstanding section 1424(a) of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 31, 64 Stat. 392; Pub. L. 85-688, Sec.
    1, Aug. 20, 1958, 72 Stat. 681; Pub. L. 92-606, Sec. 1(d), Oct. 31,
    1972, 86 Stat. 1497; Pub. L. 95-134, title II, Sec. 203(c), Oct.
    15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1162; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100
    Stat. 2095; Pub. L. 107-212, Sec. 2(a), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat.
    1051.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The income tax laws, referred to in subsec. (a), are classified
    generally to Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
      The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in subsecs. (d) to
    (f), is classified generally to Title 26.
      The Internal Revenue Code of 1939, referred to in subsecs.
    (d)(1), (e), and (f), was generally repealed by section 7851 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, Title 26. For table of comparisons
    of the 1939 Code to the 1986 Code, see Table I preceding section 1
    of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code. See also section 7852(b) of
    Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, for provision that references in
    any other law to a provision of the 1939 Code, unless expressly
    incompatible with the intent thereof, shall be deemed a reference
    to the corresponding provision of the 1986 Code.
      Subtitle A (not including chapter 2 and section 931) and chapters
    24 and 25 of subtitle C, referred to in subsec. (d)(1), and
    subtitle F and chapter 75, referred to in subsecs. (d)(1) and (f),
    mean subtitle A (Sec. 1 et seq.), chapter 2 (Sec. 1401 et seq.) of
    subtitle A, chapters 24 (Sec. 3401 et seq.) and 25 (Sec. 3501 et
    seq.) of subtitle C, subtitle F (Sec. 6001 et seq.) and chapter 75
    (Sec. 7201 et seq.) of subtitle F, respectively, of Title 26.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2002 - Subsec. (d)(3). Pub. L. 107-212 added par. (3).
      1986 - Subsecs. (d) to (f). Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986" for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954" wherever
    appearing.
      1977 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-134 inserted provision that the
    Legislature of Guam may levy a separate tax on taxpayers in an
    amount not to exceed 10 per centum of their annual income tax
    obligation to the Government of Guam.
      1972 - Subsec. (d)(2). Pub. L. 92-606 substituted "Needful rules
    and regulations not inconsistent with the regulations prescribed
    under section 7654(e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954" for
    "Needful rules and regulations".
      1958 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 85-688 designated existing provisions
    as subsec. (a).
      Subsecs. (b) to (h). Pub. L. 85-688 added subsecs. (b) to (h).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2002 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 107-212, Sec. 2(b), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1051,
    provided that: "The amendment made by subsection (a) [amending this
    section] shall apply to amounts paid after the date of the
    enactment of the Act [Aug. 21, 2002]."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1972 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 92-606 applicable with respect to taxable
    years beginning after Dec. 31, 1972, see section 2 of Pub. L. 92-
    606, set out in part as a note under section 931 of Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section became effective Jan. 1, 1951, by provision of Ex. Ord.
    No. 10211 eff. Feb. 6, 1951, 16 F.R. 1167.

    AUTHORITY OF GUAM, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
                           TO ENACT REVENUE LAWS
      See section 1271 of Pub. L. 99-514, set out as a note under
    section 931 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

    RATIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS AND COLLECTIONS MADE BEFORE AUGUST 20,
                                   1958
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 85-688 provided that income taxes assessed
    prior to Aug. 20, 1958, by the authorities of the government of
    Guam pursuant to, or under color of, this section, the collection
    of such taxes, and all acts done to effectuate such assessment and
    collection were legalized, ratified and confirmed as fully, to all
    intents and purposes, as if subsecs. (b) to (h) of this section,
    had then been in full force and effect.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421j                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421j. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      There are authorized to be appropriated annually by the Congress
    of the United States such sums as may be necessary and appropriate
    to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 32, 64 Stat. 392.)


-MISC1-
      ELIMINATION OF GENERAL FUND DEFICITS OF GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS  
      For authorization of appropriations for assistance to the
    governments of Guam and the Virgin Islands in elimination of
    general fund deficits, see Pub. L. 96-597, title VI, Sec. 607, Dec.
    24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3483, set out as a note under section 1641 of
    this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421k                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421k. Designation of naval or military reservations; closed
      port

-STATUTE-
      Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as limiting
    the authority of the President to designate parts of Guam as naval
    or military reservations, nor to restrict his authority to treat
    Guam as a closed port with respect to the vessels and aircraft of
    foreign nations.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 33, 64 Stat. 393.)


-MISC1-
                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of Guam, see
    section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421k-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421k-1. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1421k-1. Repealed. Pub. L. 104-186, title II, Sec. 224(2),
      Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1752.
      Section, act Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 35, as added May 27,
    1975, Pub. L. 94-26, Sec. 1, 89 Stat. 94, related to clerk hire
    allowance and reimbursement for transportation expenses of the
    Delegate from Guam to the House of Representatives.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421l                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421l. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1421l. Repealed. June 27, 1952, ch. 477, Sec. 403(a)(42), 66
      Stat. 280.
      Section, act Oct. 14, 1940, ch. 876, Sec. 206, as added Aug. 1,
    1950, ch. 512, Sec. 4(a), 64 Stat. 384, granted United States
    citizenship to persons born or living on Guam on or after Apr. 11,
    1899.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421m                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421m. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1421m. Repealed. Pub. L. 91-513, title III, Sec. 1101(a)(8),
      Oct. 27, 1970, 84 Stat. 1292.
      Section, act Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 852, Sec. 15, 70 Stat. 910,
    prohibited production, manufacture, compounding, possession, sale,
    dispensation, administration, or transportation of marihuana in
    Guam. See section 801 et seq. of Title 21, Food and Drugs. Section
    was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which comprises
    this chapter.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal effective on first day of seventh calendar month that
    begins after Oct. 26, 1970, see section 1105(a) of Pub. L. 91-513,
    set out as an Effective Date note under section 951 of Title 21,
    Food and Drugs.

                             SAVINGS PROVISION                         
      Prosecutions for any violation of law occurring, and civil
    seizures or forfeitures and injunction proceedings commenced, prior
    to the effective date of repeal of this section by section 1101 of
    Pub. L. 91-513 not to be affected or abated by reason thereof, see
    section 1103 of Pub. L. 91-513, set out as a note under section 171
    of Title 21, Food and Drugs.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421n                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421n. Applicability of Federal copyright laws

-STATUTE-
      The laws of the United States relating to copyrights, and to the
    enforcement of rights arising thereunder, shall have the same force
    and effect in Guam as in the continental United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1956, ch. 852, Sec. 24, 70 Stat. 911.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The laws of the United States relating to copyrights, referred to
    in text, are classified generally to Title 17, Copyrights.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421o                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421o. Federal assistance for fire control, watershed
      protection, and reforestation

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to provide financial
    and technical assistance to Guam for improving fire control,
    watershed protection and reforestation, consistent with existing
    laws, administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, which are
    applicable to the continental United States. The program authorized
    by this section shall be developed in cooperation with the
    territorial government of Guam and shall be covered by a memorandum
    of understanding agreed to by the territorial government and the
    Department. The Secretary may also utilize the agencies,
    facilities, and employees of the Department, and may cooperate with
    other public agencies and with private organizations and
    individuals in Guam and elsewhere.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-421, Sec. 1, Sept. 19, 1974, 88 Stat. 1154.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421p                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421p. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
    be necessary to carry out the purposes of section 1421o of this
    title. Sums appropriated in pursuance of sections 1421o and 1421p
    of this title may be allocated to such agencies of the Department
    as are concerned with the administration of the program in Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-421, Sec. 2, Sept. 19, 1974, 88 Stat. 1154.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421q                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421q. Applicability of Federal laws

-STATUTE-
      The laws of the United States which are made applicable to the
    Northern Mariana Islands by the provisions of section 502(a)(1) of
    H.J. Res. 549,(!1) as approved by the House of Representatives and
    the Senate, except for section 228 of title II [42 U.S.C. 428] and
    title XVI of the Social Security Act [42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.] as it
    applies to the several States and the Micronesia Claims Act [50
    U.S.C. App. 2018 et seq.] as it applies to the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands, shall be made applicable to Guam on the same
    terms and conditions as such laws are applied to the Northern
    Mariana Islands.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-255, Sec. 2, Apr. 1, 1976, 90 Stat. 300.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 502(a)(1) of H.J. Res. 549, referred to in text, probably
    means section 502(a)(1) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth
    of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United
    States of America, which is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-
    241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      The Social Security Act, referred to in text, is act Aug. 14,
    1935, ch. 531, 49 Stat. 620, as amended. Title XVI of the Social
    Security Act is classified generally to subchapter XVI (Sec. 1381
    et seq.) of chapter 7 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare.
    For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see section
    1305 of Title 42 and Tables.
      The Micronesia Claims Act, referred to in text, probably means
    the Micronesian Claims Act of 1971, Pub. L. 92-39, July 1, 1971, 85
    Stat. 92, as amended, which was classified generally to section
    2018 et seq. of Title 50, Appendix, War and National Defense, and
    which was omitted from the Code as terminated Aug. 3, 1976.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421q-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421q-1. Applicability of laws referred to in section
      502(a)(1) of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern
      Mariana Islands

-STATUTE-
      Effective on the date when section 502 of the Covenant to
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union With the United States of America, approved by
    joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976 (90 Stat. 263) goes
    into force those laws which are referred to in section 502(a)(1) of
    said Covenant, except for any laws administered by the Social
    Security Administration, except for medicaid which is now
    administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and
    except the Micronesian Claims Act of 1971 (85 Stat. 96) shall be
    applicable to the territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands on the
    same terms and conditions as such laws are applied to the Northern
    Mariana Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-134, title IV, Sec. 403, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1163;
    Pub. L. 95-135, Sec. 1, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1166; Pub. L. 108-
    173, title IX, Sec. 900(e)(7), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2374.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States of America,
    referred to in text, is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241,
    set out as a note under section 1801 of this title. For Jan. 9,
    1978, as the date section 502 of the Covenant came into force, see
    Proc. No. 4534, Sec. 2, set out as a note under section 1801 of
    this title.
      The joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976, referred to in
    text, is Pub. L. 94-241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, which is
    classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of chapter
    17 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Tables.
      The Micronesian Claims Act of 1971, referred to in text, is Pub.
    L. 92-39, July 1, 1971, 85 Stat. 92, which was classified generally
    to section 2018 et seq. of Title 50, Appendix, War and National
    Defense, and which was omitted from the Code as terminated Aug. 3,
    1976.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is also classified to section 1574-1 of this title.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2003 - Pub. L. 108-173 substituted "Centers for Medicare &
    Medicaid Services" for "Health Care Financing Administration".
      1977 - Pub. L. 95-135 amended section generally. Prior to
    amendment, section read as follows: "Effective on October 15, 1977,
    those laws, except for any laws administered by the Social Security
    Administration and except for medicaid which is now administered by
    the Health Care Financing Administration, which are referred to in
    section 502(a)(1) (except for the reference to the Micronesian
    Claims Act of 1971 (85 Stat. 96)) of the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    With the United States of America, approved by joint resolution
    approved on March 24, 1976 (90 Stat. 263), and 502(a)(2) of said
    Covenant shall be applicable to the territories of Guam and the
    Virgin Islands on the same terms and conditions as such laws are
    applied to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1977 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 95-135 provided that: "This amendatory joint
    resolution [amending this section] shall be effective as of the
    approval of said Act entitled 'To authorize certain appropriations
    for the territories of the United States, to amend certain Acts
    relating thereto, and for other purposes' (enrolled bill H.R. 6550,
    Ninety-fifth Congress, first session) [Pub. L. 95-134, approved
    Oct. 15, 1977]."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1421r                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1421r. Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Program

-STATUTE-
    (a) In general
      The Secretary of Transportation, acting through the Administrator
    of the Maritime Administration (in this section referred to as the
    "Administrator"), may establish a Port of Guam Improvement
    Enterprise Program (in this section referred to as the "Program")
    to provide for the planning, design, and construction of projects
    for the Port of Guam to improve facilities, relieve port
    congestion, and provide greater access to port facilities.
    (b) Authorities of the Administrator
      In carrying out the Program, the Administrator may - 
        (1) receive funds provided for the Program from Federal and non-
      Federal entities, including private entities;
        (2) provide for coordination among appropriate governmental
      agencies to expedite the review process under the National
      Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for
      projects carried out under the Program;
        (3) provide for coordination among appropriate governmental
      agencies in connection with other reviews and requirements
      applicable to projects carried out under the Program; and
        (4) provide technical assistance to the Port Authority of Guam
      (and its agents) as needed for projects carried out under the
      Program.
    (c) Port of Guam Improvement Enterprise Fund
      (1) Establishment
        There is established in the Treasury of the United States a
      separate account to be known as the "Port of Guam Improvement
      Enterprise Fund" (in this section referred to as the "Fund").
      (2) Deposits
        There shall be deposited into the Fund - 
          (A) amounts received by the Administrator from Federal and
        non-Federal sources under subsection (b)(1);
          (B) amounts transferred to the Administrator under subsection
        (d); and
          (C) amounts appropriated to carry out this section under
        subsection (f).
      (3) Use of amounts
        Amounts in the Fund shall be available to the Administrator to
      carry out the Program.
      (4) Administrative expenses
        Not to exceed 3 percent of the amounts appropriated to the Fund
      for a fiscal year may be used for administrative expenses of the
      Administrator.
      (5) Availability of amounts
        Amounts in the Fund shall remain available until expended.
    (d) Transfers of amounts
      Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for any fiscal
    year for an intermodal or marine facility comprising a component of
    the Program shall be transferred to and administered by the
    Administrator.
    (e) Limitation
      Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize amounts
    made available under section 215 of title 23 or any other amounts
    made available for the construction of highways or amounts
    otherwise not eligible for making port improvements to be deposited
    into the Fund.
    (f) Authorization of appropriations
      There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund such sums as
    may be necessary to carry out this section (!1)


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-417, div. C, title XXXV, Sec. 3512, Oct. 14, 2008, 122
    Stat. 4770.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, referred to in
    subsec. (b)(2), is Pub. L. 91-190, Jan. 1, 1970, 83 Stat. 852,
    which is classified generally to chapter 55 (Sec. 4321 et seq.) of
    Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 4321 of Title 42 and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was enacted as part of the Duncan Hunter National Defense
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 and not as part of the
    Organic Act of Guam which comprises this chapter.

-FOOTNOTE-               

    (!1) So in original. Probably should be followed by a period.


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
                   SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1422                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1422. Governor and Lieutenant Governor; term of office;
      qualifications; powers and duties; annual report to Congress

-STATUTE-
      The executive power of Guam shall be vested in an executive
    officer whose official title shall be the "Governor of Guam". The
    Governor of Guam, together with the Lieutenant Governor, shall be
    elected by a majority of the votes cast by the people who are
    qualified to vote for the members of the Legislature of Guam. The
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be chosen jointly, by the
    casting by each voter of a single vote applicable to both offices.
    If no candidates receive a majority of the votes cast in any
    election, on the fourteenth day thereafter a runoff election shall
    be held between the candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor
    receiving the highest and second highest number of votes cast. The
    first election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be held
    on November 3, 1970. Thereafter, beginning with the year 1974, the
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be elected every four years
    at the general election. The Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall
    hold office for a term of four years and until their successors are
    elected and qualified.
      No person who has been elected Governor for two full successive
    terms shall again be eligible to hold that office until one full
    term has intervened.
      The term of the elected Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall
    commence on the first Monday of January following the date of
    election.
      No person shall be eligible for election to the office of
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor unless he is an eligible voter and
    has been for five consecutive years immediately preceding the
    election a citizen of the United States and a bona fide resident of
    Guam and will be, at the time of taking office, at least thirty
    years of age. The Governor shall maintain his official residence in
    Guam during his incumbency.
      The Governor shall have general supervision and control of all
    the departments, bureaus, agencies, and other instrumentalities of
    the executive branch of the government of Guam. He may grant
    pardons and reprieves and remit fines and forfeitures for offenses
    against local laws. He may veto any legislation as provided in this
    chapter. He shall appoint, and may remove, all officers and
    employees of the executive branch of the government of Guam, except
    as otherwise provided in this or any other Act of Congress, or
    under the laws of Guam, and shall commission all officers that he
    may be authorized to appoint. He shall be responsible for the
    faithful execution of the laws of Guam and the laws of the United
    States applicable in Guam. Whenever it becomes necessary, in case
    of disaster, invasion, insurrection, or rebellion, or imminent
    danger thereof, or to prevent or suppress lawless violence, he may
    summon the posse comitatus or call out the militia or request
    assistance of the senior military or naval commander of the Armed
    Forces of the United States in Guam, which may be given at the
    discretion of such commander if not disruptive of, or inconsistent
    with, his Federal responsibilities. He may, in case of rebellion or
    invasion, or imminent danger thereof, when the public safety
    requires it, proclaim the island, insofar as it is under the
    jurisdiction of the government of Guam, to be under martial law.
    The members of the legislature shall meet forthwith on their own
    initiative and may, by a two-thirds vote, revoke such proclamation.
      The Governor shall prepare, publish, and submit to the Congress
    and the Secretary of the Interior a comprehensive annual financial
    report in conformance with the standards of the National Council on
    Governmental Accounting within one hundred and twenty days after
    the close of the fiscal year. The comprehensive annual financial
    report shall include statistical data as set forth in the standards
    of the National Council on Governmental Accounting relating to the
    physical, economic, social, and political characteristics of the
    government, and any other information required by the Congress. The
    Governor shall also make such other reports at such other times as
    may be required by the Congress or under applicable Federal law. He
    shall have the power to issue executive orders and regulations not
    in conflict with any applicable law. He may recommend bills to the
    legislature and give expression to his views on any matter before
    that body.
      There is hereby established the office of Lieutenant Governor of
    Guam. The Lieutenant Governor shall have such executive powers and
    perform such duties as may be assigned to him by the Governor or
    prescribed by this chapter or under the laws of Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 6, 64 Stat. 386; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    1, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 842; Pub. L. 97-357, title I, Sec.
    104(a), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1705; Pub. L. 105-362, title IX,
    Sec. 901(m), Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3290.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Pub. L. 105-362, in sixth par., struck out "The Governor
    shall transmit the comprehensive annual financial report to the
    Inspector General of the Department of the Interior who shall audit
    it and report his findings to the Congress." after "other
    information required by the Congress." and "He shall also submit to
    the Congress, the Secretary of the Interior, and the cognizant
    Federal auditors a written statement of actions taken or
    contemplated on Federal audit recommendations within sixty days
    after the issuance date of the audit report." after "under
    applicable Federal law."
      1982 - Pub. L. 97-357 substituted provisions relating to
    preparation, etc., of a comprehensive annual financial report to be
    submitted to the Congress, the Secretary of the Interior, and the
    Inspector General of the Department of the Interior, preparation of
    other reports as required by Congress or applicable Federal law,
    and submittal of a written statement of actions taken or
    contemplated on Federal audit recommendations for provisions
    relating to an annual report of transactions of the Guam government
    to the Secretary of the Interior for transmittal to Congress and
    such other reports as required by Congress or applicable Federal
    law.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 established office of Lieutenant Governor
    of Guam, provided for popular election of Governor and Lieutenant
    Governor, declared persons elected for two full successive terms as
    Governor ineligible to serve again until the lapse of a full
    intervening term, set out qualifications of eligibility for
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor, and restated powers and duties of
    office of Governor.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that: "Those provisions
    necessary to authorize the holding of an election for Governor and
    Lieutenant Governor on November 3, 1970, shall be effective on
    January 1, 1970. All other provisions of this Act [see Short Title
    of 1968 Amendment note set out under section 1421 of this title],
    unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be effective
    January 4, 1971."

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in the 1st
    sentence of the 6th paragraph of this section relating to the
    requirement that the Governor submit a comprehensive annual
    financial report to Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66,
    as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money
    and Finance, and the 9th item on page 115 of House Document No. 103-
    7.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of Guam, see
    section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1422a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1422a. Removal of Governor, Lieutenant Governor, or member of
      legislature; referendum election

-STATUTE-
      (a) The people of Guam shall have the right of initiative and
    referendum, to be exercised under conditions and procedures
    specified in the laws of Guam.
      (b) Any Governor, Lieutenant Governor, or member of the
    legislature of Guam may be removed from office by a referendum
    election in which at least two-thirds of the number of persons
    voting for such official in the last preceding general election at
    which such official was elected vote in favor of recall and in
    which those so voting constitute a majority of all those
    participating in such referendum election. The referendum election
    shall be initiated by the legislature of Guam following (a) a two-
    thirds vote of the members of the legislature in favor of a
    referendum, or (b) petition for such a referendum to the
    legislature by registered voters equal in number to at least 50 per
    centum of the whole number of votes cast at the last general
    election at which such official was elected preceding the filing of
    the petition.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 7, 64 Stat. 387; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    2, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 844; Pub. L. 97-357, title I, Sec. 101,
    Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1705.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1982 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97-357 added subsec. (a).
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 97-357 redesignated existing provisions as
    subsec. (b) and inserted provisions relating to the removal of a
    Lieutenant Governor or member of the legislature of Guam.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 substituted provisions for the removal of
    the Governor of Guam through a referendum election for provisions
    for the appointment, tenure, powers, and duties of the Secretary of
    Guam.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1422b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1422b. Vacancy in office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor

-STATUTE-
    (a) Temporary disability or temporary absence of Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of the
    Governor, the Lieutenant Governor shall have the powers of the
    Governor.
    (b) Permanent vacancy in office of Governor
      In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Governor, arising
    by reason of the death, resignation, removal by recall, or
    permanent disability of the Governor, or the death, resignation, or
    permanent disability of a Governor-elect, or for any other reason,
    the Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect shall become
    the Governor, to hold office for the unexpired term and until he or
    his successor shall have been duly elected and qualified at the
    next regular election for Governor.
    (c) Temporary disability or temporary absence of Lieutenant
      Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of the
    Lieutenant Governor, or during any period when the Lieutenant
    Governor is acting as Governor, the speaker of the Guam Legislature
    shall act as Lieutenant Governor.
    (d) Permanent vacancy in office of Lieutenant Governor
      In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Lieutenant
    Governor, arising by reason of the death, resignation, or permanent
    disability of the Lieutenant Governor, or because the Lieutenant
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect has succeeded to the office
    of Governor, the Governor shall appoint a new Lieutenant Governor,
    with the advice and consent of the legislature, to hold office for
    the unexpired term and until he or his successor shall have been
    duly elected and qualified at the next regular election for
    Lieutenant Governor.
    (e) Temporary disability or temporary absence of both Governor and
      Lieutenant Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of both
    the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor, the powers of the
    Governor shall be exercised, as Acting Governor, by such person as
    the laws of Guam may prescribe. In case of a permanent vacancy in
    the offices of both the Governor and Lieutenant Governor, the
    office of Governor shall be filled for the unexpired term in the
    manner prescribed by the laws of Guam.
    (f) Additional compensation
      No additional compensation shall be paid to any person acting as
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor who does not also assume the office
    of Governor or Lieutenant Governor under the provisions of this
    chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 8, 64 Stat. 387; Pub. L. 87-419, Sec.
    1, Mar. 16, 1962, 76 Stat. 34; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 3, Sept. 11,
    1968, 82 Stat. 844.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a), substituted provisions that the Lieutenant Governor have the
    powers of the Governor in the event of the temporary disability or
    temporary absence of the Governor for provisions authorizing the
    appointed department head to designate an acting Governor in the
    case of a vacancy or temporary absence of both the Governor and the
    Secretary of Guam, and added subsecs. (b) to (f).
      1962 - Pub. L. 87-419 provided for appointment of an acting
    secretary under certain conditions, prescribed the powers of such
    secretary and proscribed additional compensation for an acting
    Governor or acting secretary.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1422c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1422c. Executive agencies and instrumentalities

-STATUTE-
    (a) Appointment of heads; establishment of merit system; Civil
      Service Commission
      The Governor shall, except as otherwise provided in this chapter
    or the laws of Guam, appoint, by and with the advice and consent of
    the legislature, all heads of executive agencies and
    instrumentalities. The legislature shall establish a merit system
    and, as far as practicable, appointments and promotions shall be
    made in accordance with such merit system. The Government of Guam
    may by law establish a Civil Service Commission to administer the
    merit system. Members of the commission may be removed as provided
    by the laws of Guam.
    (b) Powers and duties of officers
      All officers shall have such powers and duties as may be
    conferred or imposed on them by law or by executive regulation of
    the Governor not inconsistent with any law.
    (c) Reorganization
      The Governor shall, from time to time, examine the organization
    of the executive branch of the government of Guam, and shall
    determine and carry out such changes therein as are necessary to
    promote effective management and to execute faithfully the purposes
    of this chapter and the laws of Guam.
    (d) Continuation in office of incumbents
      All persons holding office in Guam on August 1, 1950 may, except
    as otherwise provided in this chapter, continue to hold their
    respective offices until their successors are appointed and
    qualified.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 9, 64 Stat. 387; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    4, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 845; Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 18(a), Aug.
    27, 1986, 100 Stat. 843.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99-396 inserted provisions
    authorizing establishment of Civil Service Commission and removal
    of commission members as provided by laws of Guam.
      1968 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 4(a), struck out
    requirement that, in making appointments, preference be given
    persons of Guamanian ancestry and that opportunities for higher
    education and use of service training facilities be provided to
    qualified persons of Guamanian ancestry.
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 4(b), struck out provision
    authorizing the Governor to appoint or remove any officer whose
    appointment or removal is not otherwise provided for.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 4(a) of Pub. L 90-497 provided that the amendment made by
    such section 4(a) is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    497, which was approved on Sept. 11, 1968.
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1422d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER II - THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1422d. Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
      Guam to Inspector General, Department of the Interior

-STATUTE-
    (a) Functions, powers, and duties transferred
      The following functions, powers, and duties heretofore vested in
    the government comptroller for Guam are hereby transferred to the
    Inspector General, Department of the Interior, for the purpose of
    establishing an organization which will maintain a satisfactory
    level of independent audit oversight of the government of Guam:
        (1) The authority to audit all accounts pertaining to the
      revenue and receipts of the government of Guam, and of funds
      derived from bond issues, and the authority to audit, in
      accordance with law and administrative regulations, all
      expenditures of funds and property pertaining to the government
      of Guam including those pertaining to trust funds held by the
      government of Guam.
        (2) The authority to report to the Secretary of the Interior
      and the Governor of Guam all failures to collect amounts due the
      government, and expenditures of funds or uses of property which
      are irregular or not pursuant to law.
    (b) Scope of authority transferred
      The authority granted in paragraph (a) of this section shall
    extend to all activities of the government of Guam, and shall be in
    addition to the authority conferred upon the Inspector General by
    the Inspector General Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 1101), as amended.
    (c) Transfer of personnel, assets, etc., of office of government
      comptroller for Guam to Office of Inspector General, Department
      of the Interior
      In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the
    personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and
    unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations,
    and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available or to
    be made available, of the office of the government comptroller for
    Guam related to its audit function are hereby transferred to the
    Office of Inspector General, Department of the Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 9-A, as added Pub. L. 97-357, title I,
    Sec. 104(b), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1706.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (b), is
    Pub. L. 95-452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, as amended, which is
    set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and
    Employees.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      A prior section 1422d, act Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 9-A, as
    added Sept. 11, 1968, Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 5, 82 Stat. 845; amended
    Oct. 15, 1977, Pub. L. 95-134, title II, Sec. 203(a), 91 Stat.
    1161, related to the creation, auditing function, and reporting
    duty of the office of a government comptroller for Guam, prior to
    repeal by Pub. L. 97-357, Sec. 104(b).

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423. Legislature of Guam

-STATUTE-
    (a) Unicameral nature; power
      The legislative power and authority of Guam shall be vested in a
    legislature, consisting of a single house, to be designated the
    "Legislature of Guam", herein referred to as the legislature.
    (b) Size of legislature; prohibition against denial of equal
      protection; at large and district representation
      The legislature shall be composed of not to exceed twenty-one
    members, to be known as senators, elected at large, or elected from
    legislative districts or elected in part at large and in part from
    legislative districts, as the laws of Guam may direct: Provided,
    That any districting and any apportionment pursuant to this
    authorization and provided for by the laws of Guam shall not deny
    to any person in Guam the equal protection of the laws: And
    provided further, That in any elections to the legislature, every
    elector shall be permitted to vote for the whole number of at-large
    candidates to be elected, and every elector residing in a
    legislative district shall be permitted to vote for the whole
    number of candidates to be elected within that district.
    (c) Reapportionment; Federal census base
      Any districting and related apportionment pursuant to this
    section shall be based upon the then most recent Federal population
    census of Guam, and any such districting and apportionment shall be
    reexamined following each successive Federal population census of
    Guam and shall be modified, if necessary, to be consistent with
    that census.
    (d) Timing of biennial elections
      General elections to the legislature shall be held on the Tuesday
    next after the first Monday in November, biennially in even-
    numbered years. The legislature in all respects shall be organized
    and shall sit according to the laws of Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 10, 64 Stat. 387; Pub. L. 89-552, Sec.
    1, Sept. 2, 1966, 80 Stat. 375; Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 5(b), Dec. 8,
    1983, 97 Stat. 1460.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1983 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98-213 substituted "Any" for "The
    laws of Guam shall not alter the manner in which members of the
    legislature are to be elected as provided in subsection (b) of this
    section more often than at ten-year intervals: Provided, That any".
      1966 - Pub. L. 89-552 authorized election of senators in whole or
    in part from legislative districts if the laws of Guam so directed,
    provided that the legislators be called senators, prohibited any
    districting or apportionment which denied equal protection of the
    laws to any person in Guam, required that electors be permitted to
    vote for the whole number of candidates to be elected both within
    his district and at large, prohibited reapportionment oftener than
    at 10-year intervals, and required that any redistricting be based
    upon the latest Federal census.

      AMENDMENT OF LAWS OF GUAM TO CONFORM TO CHANGES MADE BY PUB. L.
                                  89-552
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 89-552 provided that: "As soon as
    practicable after enactment of this Act [Sept. 2, 1966], and
    subject to the conditions and requirements of section 10 of the
    Organic Act of Guam, as amended by section 1 hereof [this section],
    the laws of Guam shall be amended to make provision for the manner
    of the election of members of the legislature. Until the laws of
    Guam shall make such provision the method of electing the
    legislature shall remain as it is upon the date of enactment of
    this Act."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423a. Power of legislature; limitation on indebtedness of
      Guam; bond issues; guarantees for purchase by Federal Financing
      Bank of Guam Power Authority bonds or other obligations; interest
      rates; default

-STATUTE-
      The legislative power of Guam shall extend to all rightful
    subjects of legislation not inconsistent with the provisions of
    this chapter and the laws of the United States applicable to Guam.
    Taxes and assessments on property, internal revenues, sales,
    license fees, and royalties for franchises, privileges, and
    concessions may be imposed for purposes of the government of Guam
    as may be uniformly provided by the Legislature of Guam, and when
    necessary to anticipate taxes and revenues, bonds and other
    obligations may be issued by the government of Guam: Provided,
    however, That no public indebtedness of Guam shall be authorized or
    allowed in excess of 10 per centum of the aggregate tax valuation
    of the property in Guam. Bonds or other obligations of the
    government of Guam payable solely from revenues derived from any
    public improvement or undertaking shall not be considered public
    indebtedness of Guam within the meaning of this section. All bonds
    issued by the government of Guam or by its authority shall be
    exempt, as to principal and interest, from taxation by the
    Government of the United States or by the government of Guam, or by
    any State or Territory or any political subdivision thereof, or by
    the District of Columbia. The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter
    in this section referred to as "Secretary") is authorized to
    guarantee for purchase by the Federal Financing Bank bonds or other
    obligations of the Guam Power Authority maturing on or before
    December 31, 1978, which shall be issued in order to refinance
    short-term notes due or existing on June 1, 1976 and other
    indebtedness not evidenced by bonds or notes in an aggregate amount
    of not more than $36 million, and such bank, in addition to its
    other powers, is authorized to purchase, receive or otherwise
    acquire these same. The interest rate on obligations purchased by
    the Federal Financing Bank shall be not less than a rate determined
    by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into consideration the
    current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations
    of the United States of comparable maturities, adjusted to the
    nearest one-eighth of 1 per centum, plus 1 per centum per annum.
    The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of the
    Treasury, may extend the guarantee provision of the previous
    sentence until December 31, 1980. The Secretary, upon determining
    that the Guam Power Authority is unable to refinance on reasonable
    terms the obligations purchased by the Federal Financing Bank under
    the fifth sentence of this section by December 31, 1980, may, with
    the concurrence of the Secretary of the Treasury, guarantee for
    purchase by the Federal Financing Bank; and such bank is authorized
    to purchase, obligations of the Guam Power Authority issued to
    refinance the principal amount of the obligations guaranteed under
    the fifth sentence of this section. The obligations that refinance
    such principal amount shall mature not later than December 31,
    1990, and shall bear interest at a rate determined in accordance
    with section 2285 of title 12. At the request of the Board of
    Directors of the Guam Power Authority for a second refinancing
    agreement and conditioned on the approval of the Government of Guam
    pursuant to the law of Guam, and conditioned on the establishment
    of an independent rate-making authority by the Government of Guam,
    the Secretary may guarantee for purchase by the Federal Financing
    Bank, on or before December 31, 1984, according to an agreement
    that shall provide for - 
        (a) substantially equal semiannual installments of principal
      and interest;
        (b) maturity of obligations no later than December 31, 2004;
        (c) authority for the Secretary, should there be a violation of
      a provision of this legislation, or covenants or stipulations
      contained in the refinancing document and after giving sixty days
      notice of such violation to the Guam Power Authority and the
      Governor of Guam, to dismiss members of the Board of Directors or
      the general manager of the Guam Power Authority, and (1) appoint
      in their place members or a general manager who shall serve at
      the pleasure of the Secretary, or (2) contract for the management
      of the Guam Power Authority; and
        (d) an annual simple interest rate of seven per centum; and

    the Federal Financing Bank shall purchase such Guam Power Authority
    obligations if such Guam Power Authority obligations are issued to
    refinance the principal amount scheduled to mature on December 31,
    1990. Should such second refinancing occur, (1) the independent
    rate-making authority to be established by the Government of Guam,
    or in its absence, the Board of Directors of the Guam Power
    Authority, shall establish rates sufficient to satisfy all
    financial obligations and future capital investment needs of the
    Guam Power Authority that shall be consistent with generally
    accepted rate-making practices of public utilities, and (2) the
    Government of Guam shall not modify the requirements of such
    refinancing agreement without agreement of the Secretary. There are
    authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior for
    payment to the Federal Financing Bank such sums as are necessary to
    pay (1) the repurchase payment required under the fifth paragraph
    of the December 31, 1980, note from the Guam Power Authority to the
    Federal Financing Bank and any subsequent repurchase payments
    required under the second refinancing agreement, and (2) the
    interest rate differential between the seven per centum to be paid
    by the Guam Power Authority and the second refinancing agreement
    and the interest rate that would otherwise be determined in
    accordance with the above cited section 2285 of title 12. Should
    the Guam Power Authority fail to pay in full any installment of
    interest or principal when due on the bonds or other obligations
    guaranteed under this section, the Secretary of the Treasury, upon
    notice from the Secretary shall deduct and pay to the Federal
    Financing Bank or the Secretary, according to their respective
    interests, such unpaid amounts from sums collected and payable
    pursuant to section 1421h of this title. Notwithstanding any other
    provision of law, Acts making appropriations may provide for the
    withholding of any payments from the United States to the
    government of Guam which may be or may become due pursuant to any
    law and offset the amount of such withheld payments against any
    claim the United States may have against the government of Guam or
    the Guam Power Authority pursuant to this guarantee. For the
    purpose of this chapter, under section 3713(a) of title 31 the term
    "person" includes the government of Guam and the Guam Power
    Authority. The Secretary may place such stipulations as he deems
    appropriate on the bonds or other obligations he guarantees.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 11, 64 Stat. 387; Pub. L. 94-395,
    Sept. 3, 1976, 90 Stat. 1199; Pub. L. 96-205, title III, Sec. 303,
    Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 88; Pub. L. 98-454, title II, Sec. 203,
    Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1733; Pub. L. 105-291, Sec. 4, Oct. 27,
    1998, 112 Stat. 2786.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "Section 3713(a) of title 31" substituted in text for "section
    3466 of the Revised Statutes (31 U.S.C. 191)" on authority of Pub.
    L. 97-258, Sec. 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first
    section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Pub. L. 105-291 substituted "rightful subjects of
    legislation" for "subjects of legislation of local application" in
    first sentence.
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 inserted provisions relating to authority
    of Secretary to guarantee for purchase by the Federal Financing
    Bank, obligations of the Guam Power Authority to be used for a
    second refinancing of the principal amount due to mature on
    December 31, 1990.
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-205 substituted provisions relating to
    guarantees by the Secretary of the purchase by the Federal
    Financing Bank of the refinancing obligations of the Guam Power
    Authority where such refinancing obligations remain outstanding by
    Dec. 31, 1980, for provisions relating to payment of interest and
    default on maturity of guaranteed bonds or other obligations issued
    prior to Dec. 31, 1980.
      1976 - Pub. L. 94-395 inserted provisions relating to authority
    of Secretary of the Interior to guarantee for purchase by the
    Federal Financing Bank bonds or other obligations of the Guam Power
    Authority maturing on or before Dec. 31, 1978.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423b. Selection and qualification of members; officers; rules
      and regulations; quorum

-STATUTE-
      The legislature shall be the judge of the selection and
    qualification of its own members. It shall choose from its members
    its own officers, determine its rules and procedure, not
    inconsistent with this chapter, and keep a journal. The quorum of
    the legislature shall consist of a simple majority of its members.
    No bill shall become a law unless it shall have been passed at a
    meeting, at which a quorum was present, by the affirmative vote of
    a majority of the members present and voting, which vote shall be
    by yeas and nays.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 12, 64 Stat. 388; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    6(b), Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 846; Pub. L. 105-291, Sec. 3, Oct.
    27, 1998, 112 Stat. 2785.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Pub. L. 105-291 substituted "a simple majority" for
    "eleven".
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 inserted a quorum requirement, provided
    that a quorum of the legislature consist of eleven of its members,
    and made presence of a quorum requisite to passage of a law.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 6(b) of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made
    by that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    497, which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423c. Privileges of members

-STATUTE-
      (a) The members of the legislature shall, in all cases except
    treason, felony, or breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest
    during their attendance at the legislature and in going to and
    returning from the same.
      (b) No member of the legislature shall be held to answer before
    any tribunal other than the legislature itself for any speech or
    debate in the legislature.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 13, 64 Stat. 388.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423d. Oath of office

-STATUTE-
      Every member of the legislature and all officers of the
    government of Guam shall take the following oath or affirmation:
      "I solemnly swear (or affirm) in the presence of Almighty God
    that I will well and faithfully support the Constitution of the
    United States, the laws of the United States applicable to Guam and
    the laws of Guam, and that I will conscientiously and impartially
    discharge my duties as a member of the Guam Legislature (or as an
    officer of the government of Guam)."

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 14, 64 Stat. 388.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423e. Prohibition against acceptance of salary increases or
      newly created offices

-STATUTE-
      No member of the legislature shall, during the term for which he
    was elected or during the year following the expiration of such
    term, be appointed to any office which has been created, or the
    salary or emoluments of which have been increased during such term.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 15, 64 Stat. 388.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423f                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423f. Qualifications of members

-STATUTE-
      No person shall sit in the legislature who is not a citizen of
    the United States, who has not attained the age of twenty-five
    years and who has not been domiciled in Guam for at least five
    years immediately preceding the sitting of the legislature in which
    he seeks to qualify as a member, or who has been convicted of a
    felony or of a crime involving moral turpitude and has not received
    a pardon restoring his civil rights.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 16, 64 Stat. 388.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423g                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423g. Vacancies

-STATUTE-
      Vacancies occurring in the legislature shall be filled as the
    legislature shall provide, except that no person filling a vacancy
    shall hold office longer than for the remainder of the term for
    which his predecessor was elected.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 17, 64 Stat. 388.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423h                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423h. Regular and special sessions

-STATUTE-
      Regular sessions of the legislature shall be held annually,
    commencing on the second Monday in January (unless the legislature
    shall by law fix a different date), and shall continue for such
    term as the legislature may provide. The Governor may call special
    sessions of the legislature at any time when, in his opinion, the
    public interest may require it. No legislation shall be considered
    at any special session other than that specified in the call
    therefor or in any special message by the Governor to the
    legislature while in such session. All sessions of the legislature
    shall be open to the public.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 18, 64 Stat. 388; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    6(a), Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 846.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497 removed 60-day limitation on the length of
    regular sessions and 14-day limitation on the length of special
    sessions of the legislature.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 6(a) of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made
    by that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    497, which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423i                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423i. Approval of bills

-STATUTE-
      Every bill passed by the legislature shall, before it becomes a
    law, be entered upon the journal and presented to the Governor. If
    he approves it, he shall sign it, but if not he shall, except as
    hereinafter provided, return it, with his objections, to the
    legislature within ten days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have
    been presented to him. If he does not return it within such period,
    it shall be a law in like manner as if he had signed it, unless the
    legislature by adjournment prevents its return, in which case it
    shall be a law if signed by the Governor within thirty days after
    it shall have been presented to him; otherwise it shall not be a
    law. When a bill is returned by the Governor to the legislature
    with his objections, the legislature shall enter his objections at
    large on its journal and, upon motion of a member of the
    legislature, proceed to reconsider the bill. If, after such
    reconsideration, two-thirds of all the members of the legislature
    pass the bill, it shall be a law. If any bill presented to the
    Governor contains several items of appropriation of money, he may
    object to one or more of such items, or any part or parts, portion
    or portions thereof, while approving the other items, parts, or
    portions of the bill. In such a case he shall append to the bill at
    the time of signing it, a statement of the items, or parts or
    portions thereof, to which he objects, and the items, or parts or
    portions thereof, so objected to shall not take effect. All laws
    enacted by the legislature shall be reported by the Governor to the
    head of the department or agency designated by the President under
    section 1421a of this title. The Congress of the United States
    reserves the power and authority to annul the same.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 19, 64 Stat. 389; Pub. L. 90-497, Sec.
    8, Sept. 11, 1968, 82 Stat. 847; Pub. L. 93-608, Sec. 1(14), Jan.
    2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1969.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1975 - Pub. L. 93-608 struck out requirement that reports be
    transmitted to Congress by the Secretary concerned.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 8(a), struck out President's
    authority to veto territorial legislation referred by the Governor
    after such legislation had been passed by the legislature over the
    Governor's veto.
      Pub. L. 90-497, Sec. 8(b), struck out provision that, if Congress
    did not annul laws passed by the legislature and reported to
    Congress within one year of the date of its receipt by Congress,
    such laws were deemed to have been approved by Congress.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 8(b) of Pub. L. 90-497 provided that the amendment made
    by that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    497, which was approved Sept. 11, 1968.
      Amendment by Pub. L. 90-497 necessary to authorize the holding of
    an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov. 3, 1970,
    effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments unless otherwise
    provided effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 13 of Pub. L. 90-497,
    set out as a note under section 1422 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423j                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423j. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      (a) Appropriations, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
    and except such appropriations as shall be made from time to time
    by the Congress of the United States, shall be made by the
    legislature.
      (b) If at the termination of any fiscal year the legislature
    shall have failed to pass appropriation bills providing for
    payments of the necessary current expenses of the government and
    meeting its legal obligations for the ensuing fiscal year, then the
    several sums appropriated in the last appropriation bills for the
    objects and purposes therein specified, so far as the same may be
    applicable, shall be deemed to be reappropriated, item by item.
      (c) All appropriations made prior to August 1, 1950 shall be
    available to the government of Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 20, 64 Stat. 389.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423k                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423k. Right of petition

-STATUTE-
      The legislature or any person or group of persons in Guam shall
    have the unrestricted right of petition. It shall be the duty of
    all officers of the government to receive and without delay to act
    upon or forward, as the case may require, any such petition.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 21, 64 Stat. 389.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1423l                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER III - THE LEGISLATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1423l. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Oct. 5, 1992, Pub. L. 102-381, title I, 106 Stat.
    1392, which authorized Territorial and local governments of Guam to
    make purchases through General Services Administration, was from
    the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations
    Act, 1992, and was not repeated in subsequent appropriation acts.
    See section 1469e of this title. Similar provisions were contained
    in the following prior appropriation acts:
      Nov. 13, 1991, Pub. L. 102-154, title I, 105 Stat. 1007.
      Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101-512, title I, 104 Stat. 1932.
      Oct. 23, 1989, Pub. L. 101-121, title I, 103 Stat. 716.
      Sept. 27, 1988, Pub. L. 100-446, title I, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Dec. 22, 1987, Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-231.
      Oct. 18, 1986, Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Oct. 30, 1986, Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h)
    [title I], 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-258.
      Dec. 19, 1985, Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], 99 Stat.
    1224, 1238.
      Oct. 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat. 931.
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1401.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 965.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1052.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 987.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 812.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 433.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 512.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 151.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 430.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 339.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 250.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 112.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 163.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 265.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 264.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.
      July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.
      July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66 Stat. 457.
      Aug. 31, 1951, ch. 375, title I, 65 Stat. 263.
      Sept. 6, 1950, ch. 896, Ch. VII, title I, 64 Stat. 694.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                        02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
                       SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY                   

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424. District Court of Guam; local courts; jurisdiction

-STATUTE-
    (a) District Court of Guam; unified court system
      (1) The judicial authority of Guam shall be vested in a court
    established by Congress designated as the "District Court of Guam",
    and a judicial branch of Guam which branch shall constitute a
    unified judicial system and include an appellate court designated
    as the "Supreme Court of Guam", a trial court designated as the
    "Superior Court of Guam", and such other lower local courts as may
    have been or shall hereafter be established by the laws of Guam.
      (2) The Supreme Court of Guam may, by rules of such court, create
    divisions of the Superior Court of Guam and other local courts of
    Guam.
      (3) The courts of record for Guam shall be the District Court of
    Guam, the Supreme Court of Guam, the Superior Court of Guam (except
    the Traffic and Small Claims divisions of the Superior Court of
    Guam) and any other local courts or divisions of local courts that
    the Supreme Court of Guam shall designate.
    (b) Jurisdiction
      The District Court of Guam shall have the jurisdiction of a
    district court of the United States, including, but not limited to,
    the diversity jurisdiction provided for in section 1332 of title
    28, and that of a bankruptcy court of the United States.
    (c) Original jurisdiction
      In addition to the jurisdiction described in subsection (b) of
    this section, the District Court of Guam shall have original
    jurisdiction in all other causes in Guam, jurisdiction over which
    is not then vested by the legislature in another court or other
    courts established by it. In causes brought in the district court
    solely on the basis of this subsection, the district court shall be
    considered a court established by the laws of Guam for the purpose
    of determining the requirements of indictment by grand jury or
    trial by jury.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 22, 64 Stat. 389; Aug. 27, 1954, ch.
    1017, Sec. 1, 68 Stat. 882; Pub. L. 85-444, Secs. 1, 2, June 4,
    1958, 72 Stat. 178, 179; Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 335, Nov.
    6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2680; Pub. L. 98-454, title VIII, Secs. 801, 803,
    title X, Sec. 1001, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1741, 1743, 1745; Pub.
    L. 108-378, Sec. 1(a), Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2206.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108-378 amended subsec. (a)
    generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (a) read as follows: "The
    judicial authority of Guam shall be vested in a court of record
    established by Congress, designated the 'District Court of Guam,'
    and such local court or courts as may have been or shall hereafter
    be established by the laws of Guam in conformity with section 1424-
    1 of this title."
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 amended section generally, striking out
    language which directed that no provisions of any rules which
    authorized or required trial by jury or the prosecution of offenses
    by indictment by a grand jury instead of by information be
    applicable to the District Court of Guam unless and until made so
    applicable by laws enacted by the Legislature of Guam, repealed
    that portion of section 1 of act Aug. 27, 1954, which had inserted
    such language originally, repealed section 335 of Pub. L. 95-598,
    which had amended this section, and transferred out of this section
    into sections 1424-1 to 1424-4, with amendments, the remaining
    provisions formerly set out in this section relating to the
    creation, jurisdiction, and rules governing procedure in the Guam
    judicial system.
      1978 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 335(a), inserted "and a
    bankruptcy court".
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 335(b), substituted "section
    2075 of title 28, in cases under title 11," for "section 53 of
    title 11, in bankruptcy cases;".
      1958 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 85-444 provided that the District
    Court of Guam shall have jurisdiction in all causes arising under
    the Constitution, treaties, and laws of the United States,
    regardless of the sum or value of the matter in controversy, and to
    insert the paragraph requiring appeals to the District Court to be
    heard and determined by an appellate division.
      1954 - Subsec. (b). Act Aug. 27, 1954, inserted provisions making
    it clear that trial by jury or the prosecution of offenses by
    indictment by a grand jury instead of by information shall not be
    required in the District Court of Guam until so required by laws
    enacted by the Legislature of Guam; and defining the terms
    "attorney for the government", and "United States attorney", as
    used in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, when applicable to
    cases arising under the laws of Guam.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454 provided that: "Titles VII, VIII,
    IX, and X of this Act [enacting sections 1424-1 to 1424-4, 1493,
    and 1613a of this title, repealing section 1400 of this title,
    amending this section and sections 1424b, 1561, 1611, 1612, 1613,
    1614, 1615, 1617, 1694, and 1821 to 1824 of this title, and
    enacting provisions set out as notes under sections 1424b, 1612,
    and 1614 of this title and section 373 of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure] shall become effective on the ninetieth day
    following their enactment [Oct. 5, 1984]."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by section 335(b) of Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1,
    1979, see section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598, set out as an Effective
    Date note preceding section 101 of Title 11, Bankruptcy.
      Section 402(e) of Pub. L. 95-598, which provided a prospective
    effective date for the amendment of subsec. (a) by section 335(a)
    of Pub. L. 95-598, was repealed by section 1001 of Pub. L. 98-454.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1954 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of act Aug. 27, 1954, provided that: "The amendment
    made by section 1 [amending this section] shall be deemed to be in
    effect as of August 1, 1950."

                               SEPARABILITY                           
      Section 4 of act Aug. 27, 1954, provided: "If any particular
    provision of this Act [amending this section and enacting
    provisions set out as notes under this section], or the application
    thereof to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the
    remainder of the Act and the application of such provision to other
    persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby."

            NONREVERSAL OF CONVICTIONS PRIOR TO AUGUST 27, 1954        
      Section 3 of act Aug. 27, 1954, provided: "No conviction of a
    defendant in a criminal proceeding in the District Court of Guam
    heretofore had shall be reversed or set aside on the ground that
    the defendant was not indicted by a grand jury or tried by a petit
    jury."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424-1                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424-1. Jurisdiction and powers of local courts

-STATUTE-
    (a) Supreme Court of Guam
      The Supreme Court of Guam shall be the highest court of the
    judicial branch of Guam (excluding the District Court of Guam) and
    shall - 
        (1) have original jurisdiction over proceedings necessary to
      protect its appellate jurisdiction and supervisory authority and
      such other original jurisdiction as the laws of Guam may provide;
        (2) have jurisdiction to hear appeals over any cause in Guam
      decided by the Superior Court of Guam or other courts established
      under the laws of Guam;
        (3) have jurisdiction to issue all orders and writs in aid of
      its appellate, supervisory, and original jurisdiction, including
      those orders necessary for the supervision of the judicial branch
      of Guam;
        (4) have supervisory jurisdiction over the Superior Court of
      Guam and all other courts of the judicial branch of Guam;
        (5) hear and determine appeals by a panel of three of the
      justices of the Supreme Court of Guam and a concurrence of two
      such justices shall be necessary to a decision of the Supreme
      Court of Guam on the merits of an appeal;
        (6) make and promulgate rules governing the administration of
      the judiciary and the practice and procedure in the courts of the
      judicial branch of Guam, including procedures for the
      determination of an appeal en banc; and
        (7) govern attorney and judicial ethics and the practice of law
      in Guam, including admission to practice law and the conduct and
      discipline of persons admitted to practice law.
    (b) Chief Justice of Supreme Court of Guam
      The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Guam - 
        (1) shall preside over the Supreme Court unless disqualified or
      unable to act;
        (2) shall be the administrative head of, and have general
      supervisory power over, all departments, divisions, and other
      instrumentalities of the judicial branch of Guam; and
        (3) may issue such administrative orders on behalf of the
      Supreme Court of Guam as necessary for the efficient
      administration of the judicial branch of Guam.
    (c) Orders of Chief Justice with respect to appeals
      The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Guam, or a justice
    sitting in place of such Chief Justice, may make any appropriate
    order with respect to - 
        (1) an appeal prior to the hearing and determination of that
      appeal on the merits; or
        (2) dismissal of an appeal for lack of jurisdiction or failure
      to take or prosecute the appeal in accordance with applicable
      laws or rules of procedure.
    (d) Other local courts
      Except as granted to the Supreme Court of Guam or otherwise
    provided by this chapter or any other Act of Congress, the Superior
    Court of Guam and all other local courts established by the laws of
    Guam shall have such original and appellate jurisdiction over all
    causes in Guam as the laws of Guam provide, except that such
    jurisdiction shall be subject to the exclusive or concurrent
    jurisdiction conferred on the District Court of Guam under section
    1424 of this title.
    (e) Qualifications and duties of justices and judges
      The qualifications and duties of the justices and judges of the
    Supreme Court of Guam, the Superior Court of Guam, and all other
    local courts established by the laws of Guam shall be governed by
    the laws of Guam and the rules of such courts.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 22A, as added Pub. L. 98-454, title
    VIII, Sec. 801, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1742; amended Pub. L. 108-
    378, Sec. 1(b), Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2206.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Pub. L. 108-378 amended section generally, substituting
    provisions relating to Supreme Court of Guam and other courts for
    provisions consisting of subsecs. (a) to (c) relating to
    composition of local courts and establishment of appellate court,
    jurisdiction of courts, and practice and procedure in local courts
    and qualifications and duties of judges.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424-2                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424-2. Relations between courts of United States and courts
      of Guam

-STATUTE-
      The relations between the courts established by the Constitution
    or laws of the United States and the local courts of Guam with
    respect to appeals, certiorari, removal of causes, the issuance of
    writs of habeas corpus, and other matters or proceedings shall be
    governed by the laws of the United States pertaining to the
    relations between the courts of the United States, including the
    Supreme Court of the United States, and the courts of the several
    States in such matters and proceedings.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 22B, as added Pub. L. 98-454, title
    VIII, Sec. 801, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1742; amended Pub. L. 103-
    437, Sec. 17(a)(1), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4595; Pub. L. 108-378,
    Sec. 2, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2208.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Pub. L. 108-378 struck out before period at end ":
    Provided, That for the first fifteen years following the
    establishment of the appellate court authorized by section 1424-
    1(a) of this title, the United States Court of Appeals for the
    Ninth Circuit shall have jurisdiction to review by writ of
    certiorari all final decisions of the highest court of Guam from
    which a decision could be had. The Judicial Council of the Ninth
    Circuit shall submit reports to the Committee on Energy and Natural
    Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of
    the House of Representatives at intervals of five years following
    the establishment of such appellate court as to whether it has
    developed sufficient institutional traditions to justify direct
    review by the Supreme Court of the United States from all such
    final decisions. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
    Circuit shall have jurisdiction to promulgate rules necessary to
    carry out the provisions of this subsection".
      1994 - Pub. L. 103-437 substituted "Natural Resources" for
    "Interior and Insular Affairs" before "of the House".

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424-3                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424-3. Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
      review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit;
      rules; appeals to appellate court

-STATUTE-
    (a) Appellate jurisdiction of District Court
      Prior to the establishment of the appellate court authorized by
    section 1424-1(a) of this title, which is known as the Supreme
    Court of Guam, the District Court of Guam shall have such appellate
    jurisdiction over the local courts of Guam as the legislature may
    determine: Provided, That the legislature may not preclude the
    review of any judgment or order which involves the Constitution,
    treaties, or laws of the United States, including this chapter, or
    any authority exercised thereunder by an officer or agency of the
    Government of the United States, or the conformity of any law
    enacted by the legislature of Guam or of any orders or regulations
    issued or actions taken by the executive branch of the government
    of Guam with the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
    States, including this chapter, or any authority exercised
    thereunder by an officer or agency of the United States.
    (b) Appellate division of District Court; quorum; presiding judge;
      designation of judges; decisions
      Appeals to the District Court of Guam shall be heard and
    determined by an appellate division of the court consisting of
    three judges, of whom two shall constitute a quorum. The district
    judge shall be the presiding judge of the appellate division and
    shall preside therein unless disqualified or otherwise unable to
    act. The other judges who are to sit in the appellate division of
    any session shall be designated by the presiding judge from among
    the judges who are serving on, or are assigned to, the district
    court from time to time pursuant to section 1424b of this title:
    Provided, That no more than one of them may be a judge of a court
    of record of Guam. The concurrence of two judges shall be necessary
    to any decision of the appellate division of the district court on
    the merits of an appeal, but the presiding judge alone may make any
    appropriate orders with respect to an appeal prior to the hearing
    and determination thereof on the merits and may dismiss an appeal
    for want of jurisdiction or failure to take or prosecute it in
    accordance with the applicable law or rules of procedure.
    (c) United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; jurisdiction;
      appeals; rules
      The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall
    have jurisdiction of appeals from all final decisions of the
    appellate division of the district court. The United States Court
    of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall have jurisdiction to
    promulgate rules necessary to carry out the provisions of this
    subsection.
    (d) Appeals to appellate court; effect on District Court
      Upon the establishment of the appellate court provided for in
    section 1424-1(a) of this title, which is known as the Supreme
    Court of Guam, all appeals from the decisions of the local courts
    not previously taken must be taken to such appellate court. The
    establishment of that appellate court shall not result in the loss
    of jurisdiction of the appellate division of the district court
    over any appeal then pending in it. The rulings of the appellate
    division of the district court on such appeals may be reviewed in
    the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit and in the
    Supreme Court notwithstanding the establishment of the appellate
    court.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 22C, as added Pub. L. 98-454, title
    VIII, Sec. 801, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1742; amended Pub. L. 108-
    378, Sec. 1(c), Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2207.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108-378, Sec. 1(c)(1), inserted
    "which is known as the Supreme Court of Guam," after "appellate
    court authorized by section 1424-1(a) of this title,".
      Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 108-378, Sec. 1(c)(2), inserted ", which is
    known as the Supreme Court of Guam," after "appellate court
    provided for in section 1424-1(a) of this title" and substituted
    "taken to such appellate court" for "taken to the appellate court".

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424-4                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424-4. Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions

-STATUTE-
      Where appropriate, the provisions of part II of title 18 and of
    title 28, United States Code, and notwithstanding the provision in
    rule 54(a) Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to the
    prosecution of criminal offenses on Guam by information, the rules
    of practice and procedure heretofore or hereafter promulgated and
    made effective by the Congress or the Supreme Court of the United
    States pursuant to titles 11, 18, and 28, United States Code, shall
    apply to the District Court of Guam and appeals therefrom; except
    that the terms, "Attorney for the government" and "United States
    attorney", as used in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
    shall, when applicable to cases arising under the laws of Guam,
    including the Guam Territorial income tax, mean the Attorney
    General of Guam or such other person or persons as may be
    authorized by the laws of Guam to act therein.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 22D, as added Pub. L. 98-454, title
    VIII, Sec. 801, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1743.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, referred to in text, are
    set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure.


-MISC1-
                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424a. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1424a. Repealed. Oct. 31, 1951, ch. 655, Sec. 56(e), 65 Stat.
      729.
      Section, act Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 23, 64 Stat. 390,
    related to appeals from the District Court of Guam to the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and to the United
    States Supreme Court. See sections 41, 1252, 1291, 1292, and 1294
    of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                             SAVINGS PROVISION                         
      Subsec. (l) of section 56 of act Oct. 31, 1951, provided that the
    repeal by section 56 of act Oct. 31, 1951, shall not affect any
    rights or liabilities existing hereunder on the effective date of
    that repeal (Oct. 31, 1951).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424b. Judge of District Court; appointment, tenure, removal,
      and compensation; appointment of United States attorney and
      marshal

-STATUTE-
      (a) The President shall, by and with the advice and consent of
    the Senate, appoint a judge for the District Court of Guam who
    shall hold office for the term of ten years and until his successor
    is chosen and qualified unless sooner removed by the President for
    cause. The judge shall receive a salary payable by the United
    States which shall be at the rate prescribed for judges of the
    United States district courts.
      The Chief Judge of the Ninth Judicial Circuit of the United
    States may assign a judge of a local court of record or a judge of
    the High Court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or a
    circuit or district judge of the ninth circuit or a recalled senior
    judge of the District Court of Guam or of the District Court for
    the Northern Mariana Islands, or the Chief Justice of the United
    States may assign any other United States circuit or district judge
    with the consent of the judge so assigned and of the chief judge of
    his circuit, to serve temporarily as a judge in the District Court
    of Guam whenever it is made to appear that such an assignment is
    necessary for the proper dispatch of the business of the court.
      (b) The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and
    consent of the Senate, a United States attorney and United States
    marshal for Guam to whose offices the provisions of chapters 35 and
    37 of title 28, respectively, shall apply.

-SOURCE-
    (Aug. 1, 1950, ch. 512, Sec. 24, 64 Stat. 390; Oct. 31, 1951, ch.
    655, Sec. 55(a), 65 Stat. 728; Pub. L. 85-444, Sec. 3, June 4,
    1958, 72 Stat. 179; Pub. L. 98-454, title VIII, Sec. 802, Oct. 5,
    1984, 98 Stat. 1743.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 802(a)-(c), substituted
    "for the term of ten years" for "for a term of eight years" in
    first par., and, in second par., substituted "a local court of
    record" for "the Island Court of Guam" and inserted "or a recalled
    senior judge of the District Court of Guam or of the District Court
    of the Northern Mariana Islands" after "ninth circuit".
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 802(d), substituted "35" and
    "37" for "31" and "33" respectively.
      Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 802(e), struck out subsec. (c)
    which provided that chapters 43 and 49 of title 28 shall apply to
    the District Court of Guam.
      1958 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 85-444 increased the term of office
    from four to eight years, substituted provisions requiring the
    salary of the judge to be at the rate prescribed for judges of the
    United States district courts for provisions which required the
    salary of the judge to be the same as salary of the Governor of
    Guam, and inserted provisions permitting the Chief Judge of the
    Ninth Circuit to make temporary assignments.
      1951 - Subsec. (a). Act Oct. 31, 1951, in second sentence, struck
    out ", and shall be entitled to the benefits of retirement provided
    in section 373 of title 28".
      Subsec. (c). Act Oct. 31, 1951, struck out references to chapters
    21, 41, and 57 of title 28.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendments by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC2-
    EXTENSION OF TERM OF DISTRICT JUDGES; APPLICABILITY; EFFECTIVE DATE
      Section 1004 of Pub. L. 98-454 provided that: "The provisions of
    sections 706(a), 802(a), and 901(a) of this Act [amending sections
    1614, 1424b, and 1821, respectively, of this title] extending the
    terms of district court judges of the Virgin Islands, Guam, and the
    Northern Mariana Islands, respectively, from eight to ten years
    shall be applicable to the judges of those courts holding office on
    the effective date of this Act [Oct. 5, 1984]."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1424c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER IV - THE JUDICIARY

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1424c. Review of claims respecting land on Guam

-STATUTE-
    (a) Jurisdiction
      Notwithstanding any law or court decision to the contrary, the
    District Court of Guam is hereby granted authority and jurisdiction
    to review claims of persons, their heirs or legatees, from whom
    interests in land on Guam were acquired other than through judicial
    condemnation proceedings, in which the issue of compensation was
    adjudicated in a contested trial in the District Court of Guam, by
    the United States between July 21, 1944, and August 23, 1963, and
    to award fair compensation in those cases where it is determined
    that less than fair market value was paid as a result of (1)
    duress, unfair influence, or other unconscionable actions, or (2)
    unfair, unjust, and inequitable actions of the United States.
    (b) Acquisitions effected through condemnation proceedings
      Land acquisitions effected through judicial condemnation
    proceedings in which the issue of compensation was adjudicated in a
    contested trial in the District Court of Guam, shall remain res
    judicata and shall not be subject to review hereunder.
    (c) Fair compensation
      Fair compensation for purposes of this Act is defined as such
    additional amounts as are necessary to effect payment of fair
    market value at the time of acquisition, if it is determined that,
    as a result of duress, unfair influence, or other unconscionable
    actions, fair market value was not paid.
    (d) Employment of special masters or judges
      The District Court of Guam may employ and utilize the services of
    such special masters or judges as are necessary to carry out the
    intent and purposes hereof.
    (e) Awards
      Awards made hereunder shall be judgments against the United
    States.
    (f) Limitation on attorney's fees; violation; penalty
      Attorney's fees paid by claimants to counsel representing them
    may not exceed 5 per centum of any additional award. Any agreement
    to the contrary shall be unlawful and void. Whoever, in the United
    States or elsewhere, demands or receives any remuneration in excess
    of the maximum permitted by this section shall be guilty of a
    misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
    than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months, or both. A
    reasonable attorney's fee may be awarded in appropriate cases.
    (g) Availability of documents, records, and writings to court
      All agencies and departments of the United States Government
    shall, upon request, deliver to the court any documents, records,
    and writings which are pertinent to any claim under review.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-134, title II, Sec. 204, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1162;
    Pub. L. 96-205, title III, Sec. 301(a), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat.
    87.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 95-134, Oct. 15,
    1977, 91 Stat. 1159, as amended, popularly known as the Omnibus
    Territories Act of 1977. For complete classification of this Act to
    the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 96-205 struck out provisions
    prohibiting allowance of interest on additional amounts of award.

           TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AWARDS BY DISTRICT COURT OF GUAM       
      Pub. L. 100-647, title VI, Sec. 6140, Nov. 10, 1988, 102 Stat.
    3724, provided that: "For purposes of the internal revenue laws of
    the United States and Guam, gross income shall not include any
    amount received pursuant to any claim over which the District Court
    of Guam has jurisdiction by reason of section 204 of Public Law 95-
    134 [this section] (commonly referred to as the Omnibus
    Territories Act of 1977). This section shall be effective for
    taxable years beginning after December 31, 1985."

            COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL ACTIONS BEFORE APRIL 1, 1982        
      Section 301(b) of Pub. L. 96-205 provided that: "Any civil action
    under section 204 of the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977 (91 Stat.
    1162) [this section] shall be barred unless it is commenced not
    later than April 1, 1982."

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
              SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL          

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act June 27, 1934, ch. 847, Sec. 214, as added Apr. 23,
    1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(a), 63 Stat. 57, and amended, related to
    insurance of mortgages on property in Guam. See section 1715d of
    Title 12, Banks and Banking.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425a. Legislative authority to create authorities;
      appointment of members; powers of authorities

-STATUTE-
      The Legislature of Guam may by law grant to a public corporate
    authority, existing or to be created by or under such law, powers
    to undertake urban renewal and housing activities in Guam. Such
    legislature may by law provide for the appointment, terms of
    office, or removal of the members of such authority and for the
    powers of such authority, including authority to accept whatever
    benefits the Federal Government may make available, and to do all
    things, to exercise any and all powers, and to assume and fulfill
    any and all obligations, duties, responsibilities, and
    requirements, including but not limited to those relating to
    planning or zoning, necessary or desirable for receiving such
    Federal assistance, except that such authority shall not be given
    any power of taxation, nor any power to pledge the faith and credit
    of the territory of Guam for any loan whatever.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-171, Sec. 1, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 304.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425b. Issuance of notes, bonds, and obligations

-STATUTE-
      The Legislature of Guam may by law authorize such authority, any
    provision of the Organic Act of Guam [48 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.], or
    any other Act of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding, to
    borrow money and to issue notes, bonds, and other obligations of
    such character and maturity, with such security, and in such manner
    as the legislature may provide. Such notes, bonds, and other
    obligations shall not be a debt of the United States, or of Guam
    other than such authority, nor constitute a debt, indebtedness, or
    the borrowing of money within the meaning of any limitation or
    restriction on the issuance of notes, bonds, or other obligations
    contained in any laws of the United States applicable to Guam or to
    any agency thereof.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-171, Sec. 2, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 304.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Organic Act of Guam, referred to in text, is act Aug. 1,
    1950, ch. 512, 64 Stat. 384, as amended, which is classified
    generally to this chapter. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1421 of
    this title and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425c. Authorization of loans, conveyances, etc.

-STATUTE-
      The Legislature of Guam may by law assist such authority by
    furnishing, or authorizing the furnishing of, cash donations,
    loans, conveyances of real and personal property, facilities, and
    services, and otherwise, and may by law take other action in aid of
    urban renewal or housing or related activities.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-171, Sec. 3, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 304.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425d. Ratification of prior act

-STATUTE-
      Each and every part of Public Law 6-135, approved December 18,
    1962, heretofore enacted by the Legislature of Guam dealing with
    any part of the subject matter of sections 1425a to 1425e of this
    title and not inconsistent therewith is ratified and confirmed.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-171, Sec. 4, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 304.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1425e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1425e. Additional powers

-STATUTE-
      Powers granted herein shall be in addition to, and not in
    derogation of, any powers granted by other law to, or for the
    benefit or assistance of, any public corporate authority.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-171, Sec. 5, Nov. 4, 1963, 77 Stat. 304.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1426                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER V - PUBLIC HOUSING AND URBAN RENEWAL

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1426. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1426. Repealed. Aug. 2, 1954, ch. 649, title II, Sec. 205, 68
      Stat. 622.
      Section, acts Apr. 23, 1949, ch. 89, Sec. 2(b), 63 Stat. 58; June
    30, 1953, ch. 170, Sec. 25(b), 67 Stat. 128, related to purchase of
    insured mortgage loans by the Federal National Mortgage
    Association, with respect to property in Guam. Section was not
    enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which comprises this
    chapter.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND                02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
                   SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      (a) For the purpose of promoting economic development in the
    territory of Guam, there is authorized to be appropriated to the
    Secretary of the Interior to be paid to the government of Guam for
    the purposes of this subchapter the sum of $5,000,000.
      (b) In addition to the appropriations authorized in subsection
    (a) of this section, $1,000,000 is authorized to be appropriated to
    the Secretary of the Interior to be paid to the government of Guam
    annually for five fiscal years commencing in fiscal year 1978 to
    carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 2, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1172; Pub. L. 95-
    134, title II, Sec. 202, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1161.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1977 - Pub. L. 95-134 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a) and added subsec. (b).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428a. Submission of plan for use of funds; contents of plan;
      term, interest rate, and premium charge of loan

-STATUTE-
      Prior to receiving any funds pursuant to this subchapter the
    government of Guam shall submit to the Secretary of the Interior a
    plan for the use of such funds which meets the requirements of this
    section and is approved by the Secretary. The plan shall designate
    an agency or agencies of such government as the agency or agencies
    for the administration of the plan and shall set forth the policies
    and procedures to be followed in furthering the economic
    development of Guam through a program which shall include and make
    provision for loans and loan guarantees to promote the development
    of private enterprise and private industry in Guam through a
    revolving fund for such purposes: Provided, That the term of any
    loan made pursuant to the plan shall not exceed twenty-five years;
    that such loans shall bear interest (exclusive of premium charges
    for insurance, and service charges, if any) at such rate per annum
    as is determined to be reasonable and as approved by the Secretary,
    but in no event less than a rate equal to the average yield on
    outstanding marketable obligations of the United States as of the
    last day of the month preceding the date of the loan, adjusted to
    the nearest one-eighth of 1 per centum, which rate shall be
    determined by the Secretary of the Treasury upon the request of the
    authorized agency or agencies of the government of Guam; and that
    premium charges for the insurance and guarantee of loans shall be
    commensurate, in the judgment of the agency or agencies
    administering the fund, with expenses and risks covered.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 3, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1172.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428b. Prerequisite for loan or loan guarantee; maximum
      participation in available funds; reserves for loan guarantees

-STATUTE-
      No loan or loan guarantee shall be made under this subchapter to
    any applicant who does not satisfy the agency or agencies
    administering the plan that financing is otherwise unavailable on
    reasonable terms and conditions. The maximum participation in the
    funds made available under section 1428 of this title shall be
    limited (a) so that not more than 25 per centum of the funds
    actually appropriated by the Congress may be devoted to any single
    project (b) to 90 per centum of loan guarantee, and (c) with
    respect to all loans, to that decree of participation prudent under
    the circumstances of individual loans but directly related to the
    minimum essential participation necessary to accomplish the
    purposes of this subchapter: Provided, That, with respect to loan
    guarantees, the reserves maintained by the agency or agencies for
    the guarantees shall not be less than 25 per centum of the
    guarantee.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 4, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1172.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428c. Accounting procedures

-STATUTE-
      The plan provided for in section 1428a of this title shall set
    forth such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be
    necessary to assure proper disbursement, repayment, and accounting
    for such funds.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 5, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1172.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428d. Report for inclusion in annual report by Governor

-STATUTE-
      The Governor of Guam shall include in the annual report to
    Congress required pursuant to section 1422 of this title a report
    on the administration of this subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 6, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1173; Pub. L. 96-
    470, title II, Sec. 206(c), Oct. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 2244.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-470 substituted provision requiring the
    Governor of Guam to include in his report to Congress under section
    1422 of this title a report on the administration of this
    subchapter for provision requiring the Governor of Guam to make an
    annual report to the Secretary of the Interior on administration of
    this subchapter, copies of which were to be forwarded to the
    Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the
    Senate.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1428e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 8A - GUAM
    SUBCHAPTER VI - GUAM DEVELOPMENT FUND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1428e. Audit of books and records of agency, or agencies,
      administering loan funds

-STATUTE-
      The Comptroller General of the United States, or any of his duly
    authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of
    audit and examination, to the books, documents, papers, and records
    of the agency, or agencies, of the government of Guam administering
    the plan that are pertinent to the funds received under this
    subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-601, Sec. 7, Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1173.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Organic Act of Guam which
    comprises this chapter.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 9 - SAMOA, TUTUILA, MANUA, SWAINS ISLAND,
           AND TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS      02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 9 - SAMOA, TUTUILA, MANUA, SWAINS ISLAND, AND TRUST
                 TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS  

-HEAD-
        CHAPTER 9 - SAMOA, TUTUILA, MANUA, SWAINS ISLAND, AND TRUST
                     TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1431 to 1440                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 9 - SAMOA, TUTUILA, MANUA, SWAINS ISLAND, AND TRUST
                 TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS  

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1431 to 1440. Transferred

-MISC1-
      Section 1431, act Mar. 4, 1925, ch. 563, 43 Stat. 1357, which
    related to making Swains Island part of American Samoa, was
    transferred to section 1662 of this title.
      Section 1431a, acts Feb. 20, 1929, ch. 281, 45 Stat. 1253; May
    22, 1929, ch. 6, 46 Stat. 4, which related to islands of eastern
    Samoa, was transferred to section 1661 of this title.
      Section 1432, act June 28, 1906, ch. 3585, 34 Stat. 552, which
    related to acknowledgment of deeds in the islands of Samoa, was
    transferred to section 1663 of this title.
      Section 1433, act June 14, 1934, ch. 523, 48 Stat. 963, which
    related to inapplicability of coastwise shipping laws to Samoa, was
    transferred to section 1664 of this title and was subsequently
    repealed by Pub. L. 109-304, Sec. 19, Oct. 6, 2006, 120 Stat. 1710.
      Section 1434, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 101, 66
    Stat. 457, which related to purchases by governments of Samoa, was
    transferred to section 1665 of this title.
      Section 1435, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 101, 66
    Stat. 458, which related to purchases by governments of Pacific
    Trust Territory, was transferred to section 1682 of this title. Act
    June 30, 1954, ch. 423, Sec. 1, formerly set out as a note under
    this section, and which related to continuance of civil government
    for the Trust Territory, is classified to section 1681 of this
    title. Section 2 of that act, which provided for annual
    appropriation authorization, is set out as a note under section
    1681 of this title.
      Section 1436, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 101, 66
    Stat. 458, which related to auditing transactions of Pacific Trust
    Territory, was transferred to section 1683 of this title.
      Section 1437, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 101, 66
    Stat. 458, which related to expenditure of funds for administration
    of Pacific Trust Territory, was transferred to section 1684 of this
    title.
      Section 1438, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 108, 66
    Stat. 460, which related to transfer of property or money for
    administration of Pacific Trust Territory, was transferred to
    section 1685 of this title.
      Section 1439, act July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, Sec. 1, 67
    Stat. 274, which related to approval by Congress of new activity in
    Pacific Trust Territory, was transferred to section 1686 of this
    title and was subsequently omitted from the Code.
      Section 1440, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, Sec. 1, July 1, 1957, 71
    Stat. 266, which related to expenditure of appropriations for
    Pacific Trust Territory for aircraft and surface vessels, was
    transferred to section 1687 of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL
           NATURE                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
          CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE      

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1451.       Rights of Indians not impaired; boundaries.           
    1452.       Regulation of Indians.                                
    1453 to 1469-1. Repealed.                                         
    1469a.      Congressional declaration of policy respecting
                 "Insular Areas".                                     
    1469a-1.    Full amounts to be covered into treasuries of Guam,
                 Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin
                 Islands; reductions prohibited.                      
    1469b.      Auditing of transactions of Territorial and local
                 governments.                                         
    1469c.      Availability of services, facilities, and equipment of
                 agencies and instrumentalities of United States;
                 reimbursement requirements.                          
    1469d.      General technical assistance.                         
    1469e.      Insular government purchases.                         
    1470 to 1488. Repealed or Omitted.                                
    1489.       Loss of title of United States to lands in territories
                 through adverse possession or prescription forbidden.
    1490.       Repealed.                                             
    1491.       License, permit, etc., for transportation for storage
                 or storage of spent nuclear fuel or high-level
                 radioactive waste; prerequisites; applicability;
                 "territory or possession" defined.                   
    1492.       Energy resources of Caribbean and Pacific insular
                 areas.                                               
    1493.       Prosecution; authorization to seek review; local or
                 Federal appellate courts; decisions, judgments or
                 orders.                                              
    1494.       Purposes.                                             
    1494a.      Annual reports to Congress.                           
    1494b.      Enforcement and administration in insular areas.      
    1494c.      Drug Enforcement Agency personnel assignments.        

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      The source of most sections of this chapter is the Revised
    Statutes enacted in 1873 and other early statutes. The Revised
    Statutes can no longer apply to contiguous territory because no
    such territory now exists. As to noncontiguous territory, Guam,
    Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands each has its own organic act,
    providing a complete system of government, legislative, executive,
    and judicial. The Canal Zone has its own code of laws. The
    independence of the Philippine Islands was recognized by Proc. No.
    2695, eff. July 4, 1946, set out as a note under section 1394 of
    Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. The other possessions,
    such as Samoa, are covered by special provisions set out elsewhere
    in this title.


-EXEC-
          EX. ORD. NO. 13299. INTERAGENCY GROUP ON INSULAR AREAS      
      Ex. Ord. No. 13299, May 12, 2003, 68 F.R. 25477, provided:
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
    and the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered
    as follows:
      Section 1. Interagency Group on Insular Areas. (a) There is
    established, within the Department of the Interior for
    administrative purposes, the Interagency Group on Insular Areas
    (IGIA). The group shall consist exclusively of:
      (i) the heads of the executive departments; and
      (ii) the heads of such agencies as the Secretary of the Interior
    may designate.
      (b) The Secretary of the Interior, or the Secretary's designee
    under section 1(c) of this order, shall convene and preside at the
    meetings of the IGIA, determine its agenda, direct its work and, as
    appropriate to deal with particular subject matters, establish and
    direct subgroups of the IGIA that shall consist exclusively of
    members of the IGIA.
      (c) A member of the IGIA may designate, to perform the IGIA or
    IGIA subgroup functions of the member, any person who is a part of
    the member's department or agency (agency) and who is either an
    officer of the United States appointed by the President or a member
    of the Senior Executive Service.
      Sec. 2. Functions of the IGIA. The IGIA shall:
      (a) provide advice on establishment or implementation of policies
    concerning American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands,
    and the Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands (Insular Areas)
    to:
      (i) the President, through the Office of Intergovernmental
    Affairs in the White House Office, in written reports, at least
    once each year; and
      (ii) the Secretary of the Interior;
      (b) obtain information and advice concerning Insular Areas from
    governors and other elected officials in the Insular Areas
    (including through a meeting at least once each year with such
    governors of the Insular Areas who may wish to attend) in a manner
    that seeks their individual advice and does not involve collective
    judgment or consensus advice or deliberation;
      (c) obtain information and advice concerning Insular Areas, as
    the IGIA determines appropriate, from representatives of entities
    or other individuals in a manner that seeks their individual advice
    and does not involve collective judgment or consensus advice or
    deliberation; and
      (d) at the request of the head of any agency who is a member of
    the IGIA, unless the Secretary of the Interior declines the
    request, promptly review and provide advice on a policy or policy
    implementation action affecting one of the Insular Areas proposed
    by that agency.
      Sec. 3. General Provisions. (a) The Secretary of the Interior
    may, as the Secretary determines appropriate, make recommendations
    to the President, or to the heads of agencies, regarding policy or
    policy implementation actions of the Federal Government affecting
    the Insular Areas.
      (b) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
    otherwise affect the functions of the Director of the Office of
    Management and Budget relating to budget, administrative, or
    legislative proposals.
      Sec. 4. Judicial Review. This order is intended only to improve
    the internal management of the Federal Government and is not
    intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive
    or procedural, enforceable at law or equity by a party against the
    United States, its departments, agencies, instrumentalities or
    entities, its officers or employees, or any other person.
                                                         George W. Bush.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1451                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1451. Rights of Indians not impaired; boundaries

-STATUTE-
      Nothing in title 23 of the Revised Statutes shall be construed to
    impair the rights of person or property pertaining to the Indians
    in any Territory, so long as such rights remain unextinguished by
    treaty between the United States and such Indians, or to include
    any Territory which, by treaty with any Indian tribe, is not,
    without the consent of such tribe, embraced within the territorial
    limits or jurisdiction of any State or Territory; but all such
    territory shall be excepted out of the boundaries, and constitute
    no part of any Territory now or hereafter organized until such
    tribe signifies its assent to the President to be embraced within a
    particular Territory. As used herein, the term "Territory" does not
    include the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, or
    the Northern Mariana Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 1839; Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 15(a), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat.
    1462.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Title 23 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was in the
    original "this Title", meaning title XXIII of the Revised Statutes,
    consisting of R.S. Secs. 1839 to 1976, and which, insofar as
    classified to the Code, is classified to sections 1451 to 1455,
    1457 to 1460a, 1463, 1463a, 1465, 1467 to 1470, 1480, and 1482 to
    1485 of this title and to sections 644 to 647, 649, and 655 to 657
    of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of R.S.
    Secs. 1839 to 1976 to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 1839 derived from N.M., act Sept. 9, 1850, ch. 49, Sec.
    2, 9 Stat. 447. Utah, act Sept. 9, 1850, ch. 51, Sec. 1, 9 Stat.
    453. Wash., act Mar. 2, 1853, ch. 90, Sec. 1, 10 Stat. 172. Colo.,
    act Feb. 28, 1861, ch. 59, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 172. Dak., act Mar. 2,
    1861, ch. 86, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 239. Ariz., act Feb. 24, 1863, ch.
    56, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 664. Idaho, act Mar. 3, 1863, ch. 117, Sec. 1,
    12 Stat. 808. Mont., act May 26, 1864, ch. 95, Sec. 1, 13 Stat. 85.
    Wyo., act July 25, 1868, ch. 235, Sec. 1, 15 Stat. 178.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1983 - Pub. L. 98-213 inserted provisions excluding from the term
    "Territory" the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam,
    or the Northern Mariana Islands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1452                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1452. Regulation of Indians

-STATUTE-
      Nor shall anything in title 23 of the Revised Statutes be
    construed to affect the authority of the United States to make any
    regulations respecting the Indians of any Territory, their lands,
    property, or rights, by treaty, law, or otherwise, in the same
    manner as might be made if no temporary government existed, or is
    hereafter established, in any such Territory. As used herein, the
    term "Territory" does not include the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico,
    American Samoa, Guam, or the Northern Mariana Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (R.S. Sec. 1840; Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 15(b), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat.
    1462.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Title 23 of the Revised Statutes, referred to in text, was in the
    original "this Title", meaning title 23 of the Revised Statutes,
    consisting of R.S. Secs. 1839 to 1976, and which, insofar as
    classified to the Code, is classified to sections 1451 to 1455,
    1457 to 1460a, 1463, 1463a, 1465, 1467 to 1470, 1480, and 1482 to
    1485 of this title and to sections 644 to 647, 649, and 655 to 657
    of Title 16, Conservation. For complete classification of R.S.
    Secs. 1839 to 1976 to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      R.S. Sec. 1840 derived from N.M., act Sept. 9, 1850, ch. 49, Sec.
    2, 9 Stat. 447. Utah, act Sept. 9, 1850, ch. 51, Sec. 1, 9 Stat.
    453. Wash., act Mar. 2, 1853, ch. 90, Sec. 1, 10 Stat. 172. Colo.,
    act Feb. 28, 1861, ch. 59, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 172. Dak., act Mar. 2,
    1861, ch. 86, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 239. Ariz., act Feb. 24, 1863, ch.
    56, Sec. 1, 12 Stat. 664. Idaho, act Mar. 3, 1863, ch. 117, Sec. 1,
    12 Stat. 808. Mont., act May 26, 1864, ch. 95, Sec. 1, 13 Stat. 85.
    Wyo., act July 25, 1868, ch. 235, Sec. 1, 15 Stat. 178.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1983 - Pub. L. 98-213 inserted provisions excluding from the term
    "Territory" the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam,
    or the Northern Mariana Islands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1453 to 1455                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1453 to 1455. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1453 to 1455. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(c)-(f), Dec.
      8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1462.
      Section 1453, R.S. Sec. 1841, related to powers, duties and term
    of office of governor of each Territory, in whom the executive
    power was vested.
      Section 1453a, R.S. Sec. 1873, related to temporary definition by
    proclamation, by governor, of judicial districts of such Territory,
    and assignment of judges appointed for such Territory to several
    districts as well as fixing of times and places for holding courts.
      Section 1454, R.S. Sec. 1843, related to appointment and term of
    office of Secretary appointed for each Territory, and duties in
    case of death, removal, resignation or absence of governor from
    Territory.
      Section 1455, R.S. Sec. 1844, related to duties of secretary
    regarding recordation, preservation, and publication of all laws
    and proceedings of legislative assembly and governor in executive
    department.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1456                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1456. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1456. Repealed. Sept. 12, 1950, ch. 946, title III, Sec.
      301(106), 64 Stat. 844.
      Section, acts June 20, 1874, ch. 328, Sec. 1, 18 Stat. 99; June
    10, 1921, ch. 18, Sec. 215, 42 Stat. 23, made it duty of secretary
    of each Territory to furnish annual estimates for expenses to
    Secretary of the Treasury.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1457 to 1469-1                                 02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1457 to 1469-1. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1457 to 1469-1. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(a), (g)-
      (u), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1462, 1463.
      Section 1457, R.S. Sec. 1855, prohibited making or enforcement of
    any law of any Territorial legislature by which the governor,
    secretary or members or officers of any Territorial legislature are
    paid any compensation other than that provided by the laws of the
    United States.
      Section 1458, R.S. Sec. 1857, related to appointment or election
    of all township, district and county officers, except justices of
    the peace and general officers of the militia, and the appointment
    of all other officers by the governor, except in first instance
    where a new Territory is created, all officers to be appointed by
    the governor.
      Section 1459, R.S. Sec. 1858, related to filling of vacancies,
    during recess of legislative council, of offices which, under
    organic act of any Territory, were required to be filled by
    governor with the advice and consent of such council.
      Section 1460, R.S. Sec. 1860; Mar. 3, 1883, ch. 134, 22 Stat.
    567; July 31, 1939, ch. 399, 53 Stat. 1143, related to
    qualification of voters at all elections subsequent to first
    election, in any newly created Territory, as well as at all
    elections in Territories already organized.
      Section 1460a, R.S. Sec. 1854; Feb. 22, 1889, ch. 180, 25 Stat.
    676; Nov. 11, 1889, No. 8, 26 Stat. 1552, 1553, restricted a member
    of legislative assembly from holding any office created, or salary
    of which has been increased, by legislature of which he was a
    member, during term for which he was elected and for one year
    thereafter.
      Section 1461, act Mar. 22, 1882, ch. 47, Sec. 8, 22 Stat. 31,
    prohibited polygamists, bigamists, etc., from voting or holding
    office in any Territory.
      Section 1462, act June 19, 1878, ch. 329, Sec. 1, 20 Stat. 193,
    related to number and compensation of subordinate officers of each
    branch of Territorial legislature.
      Section 1463, R.S. Sec. 1868, related to chancery and common-law
    jurisdiction of supreme and district courts.
      Section 1463a, R.S. Sec. 1864, related to membership, quorum, and
    term of office of supreme court of every Territory.
      Section 1464, act Apr. 7, 1874, ch. 80, Sec. 1, 18 Stat. 27,
    confirmed right to mingle exercise of common-law and chancery
    jurisdiction in courts of several Territories, provided no party
    was deprived of right to trial by jury in cases cognizable at
    common law.
      Section 1465, R.S. Sec. 1878, related to oath of office, and
    certification thereof, by governor, secretary, chief justice,
    associate justices and all other civil officers.
      Section 1466, act May 1, 1876, ch. 88, 19 Stat. 43, related to
    time when payment of salaries of all officers of the Territories
    was to commence.
      Section 1467, R.S. Sec. 1883; Pub. L. 90-578, title IV, Sec.
    402(b)(2), Oct. 17, 1968, 82 Stat. 1118, related to fees and costs
    allowed United States attorneys, marshals, clerks of courts,
    jurors, etc.
      Section 1468, R.S. Sec. 1884; June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Sec. 304, 42
    Stat. 24, prohibited payment of salaries to any officer of a
    Territory absent therefrom, unless good cause was shown to the
    President.
      Section 1469, R.S. Sec. 1886; June 10, 1921, ch. 18, Sec. 304, 42
    Stat. 24, related to accounts and disbursements of Territories for
    support of government.
      Section 1469-1, act Mar. 4, 1915, ch. 141, Sec. 1, 38 Stat. 1021;
    June 10, 1921, ch. 18, title III, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 24, related to
    transmittal of accounts and vouchers relating to expenditure of
    appropriations for government in Territories to Secretary of the
    Interior for administrative examination and by him to General
    Accounting Office.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469a. Congressional declaration of policy respecting "Insular
      Areas"

-STATUTE-
      In order to minimize the burden caused by existing application
    and reporting procedures for certain grant-in-aid programs
    available to the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands (hereafter referred to as "Insular Areas")
    it is declared to be the policy of the Congress, notwithstanding
    any provision of law to the contrary, that:
      (a) Any department or agency of the Government of the United
    States which administers any Act of Congress which specifically
    provides for making grants to any Insular Area under which payments
    received may be used by such Insular Area only for certain
    specified purposes (other than direct payments to classes of
    individuals) may, acting through appropriate administrative
    authorities of such department or agency, consolidate any or all
    grants made to such area for any fiscal year or years.
      (b) Any consolidated grant for any insular area shall not be less
    than the sum of all grants which such area would otherwise be
    entitled to receive for such year.
      (c) The funds received under a consolidated grant shall be
    expended in furtherance of the programs and purposes authorized for
    any of the grants which are being consolidated, which are
    authorized under any of the Acts administered by the department or
    agency making the grant, and which would be applicable to grants
    for such programs and purposes in the absence of the consolidation,
    but the Insular Areas shall determine the proportion of the funds
    granted which shall be allocated to such programs and purposes.
      (d) Each department or agency making grants-in-aid shall, by
    regulations published in the Federal Register, provide the method
    by which any Insular Area may submit (i) a single application for a
    consolidated grant for any fiscal year period, but not more than
    one such application for a consolidated grant shall be required by
    any department or agency unless notice of such requirement is
    transmitted to the appropriate committees of the United States
    Congress together with a complete explanation of the necessity for
    requiring such additional applications and (ii) a single report to
    such department or agency with respect to each such consolidated
    grant: Provided, That nothing in this paragraph shall preclude such
    department or agency from providing adequate procedures for
    accounting, auditing, evaluating, and reviewing any programs or
    activities receiving benefits from any consolidated grant. The
    administering authority of any department or agency, in its
    discretion, may (i) waive any requirement for matching funds
    otherwise required by law to be provided by the Insular Area
    involved and (ii) waive the requirement that any Insular Area
    submit an application or report in writing with respect to any
    consolidated grant.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-134, title V, Sec. 501, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1164;
    Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 9, Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 495.)


-STATAMEND-
                        AMENDMENT OF SUBSECTION (D)                    
      Pub. L. 96-205, title VI, Sec. 601, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 90,
    as amended Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 6, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1460;
    Pub. L. 98-454, title VI, Sec. 601(b), Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1736,
    provided that this section shall be applied with respect to the
    Department of the Interior by substituting "shall" for "may" in the
    last sentence of subsection (d), and adding the following sentence
    at the end of subsection (d): "Notwithstanding any other provision
    of law, in the case of American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands,
    and the Northern Mariana Islands any department or agency shall
    waive any requirement for local matching funds under $200,000
    (including in-kind contributions) required by law to be provided by
    American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands, or the Northern Mariana
    Islands."


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1978 - Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 9(1), in introductory provision
    inserted ", notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary,"
    after "Congress".
      Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 9(2), substituted "Any" for
    "Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, any".


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC2-
        MAINTENANCE OR LEVEL OF EFFORT REQUIREMENTS; ADJUSTMENT OR
     MODIFICATION BY ADMINISTRATOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
      Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 12(a), Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 841,
    provided that: "In awarding assistance grants, consolidated under
    the provisions of title V of the Act entitled 'An Act to authorize
    certain appropriations for the territories of the United States, to
    amend certain Acts related thereto, and for other purposes' (91
    Stat. 1159, as amended) [42 U.S.C. 4368b; 48 U.S.C. 1469a], to the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the
    Northern Mariana Islands or the Virgin Islands, the Administrator
    of the Environmental Protection Agency may, in his discretion,
    adjust or otherwise modify maintenance or level of effort
    requirements."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469a-1                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469a-1. Full amounts to be covered into treasuries of Guam,
      Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands;
      reductions prohibited

-STATUTE-
      Pursuant to the terms of the Organic Act of Guam (64 Stat. 384),
    as amended [48 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.]; the Joint resolution to
    Approve the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of
    America (90 Stat. 263), as amended [48 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.]; the
    Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act (64 Stat. 319), as amended and
    supplemented [48 U.S.C. 731 et seq.]; and the Revised Organic Act
    of the Virgin Islands (86 (!1) Stat. 497), as amended and
    supplemented [48 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.] and an Act to authorize
    appropriations for certain insular areas of the United States, and
    for other purposes (92 Stat. 487), as amended; there shall be paid
    into the treasuries of Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto
    Rico, and the Virgin Islands respectively the full amounts which
    are to be covered into the treasuries of said islands or paid
    pursuant to said laws as amended and supplemented and such amounts
    shall not be reduced, notwithstanding Public Law 99-177, Public Law
    99-366, or any other provision of law.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 19(b), Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 844.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Organic Act of Guam, referred to in text, is act Aug. 1,
    1950, ch. 512, 64 Stat. 384, as amended, which is classified
    generally to chapter 8A (Sec. 1421 et seq.) of this title. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1421 of this title and Tables.
      The Joint resolution to Approve the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    With the United States of America, referred to in text, is Pub. L.
    94-241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended, which is
    classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of chapter
    17 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Tables.
      The Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act, referred to in text, is
    act Mar. 2, 1917, ch. 145, 39 Stat. 951, as amended, also known as
    the Jones Act, which is classified principally to chapter 4 (Sec.
    731 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 731 of this
    title and Tables.
      The Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, referred to in
    text, is act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    which is classified principally to chapter 12 (Sec. 1541 et seq.)
    of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 1541 of this title and
    Tables.
      The Act to authorize appropriations for certain insular areas of
    the United States, and for other purposes (92 Stat. 487), as
    amended, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 95-348, Aug. 18, 1978, 92
    Stat. 487. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Tables.
      Public Law 99-177, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-177, Dec.
    12, 1985, 99 Stat. 1037, as amended, title II of which is known as
    the "Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985",
    which enacted chapter 20 (Sec. 900 et seq.) and sections 654 to 656
    of Title 2, The Congress, amended sections 602, 622, 631 to 642,
    and 651 to 653 of Title 2, sections 1104 to 1106, and 1109 of Title
    31, Money and Finance, and section 911 of Title 42, The Public
    Health and Welfare, repealed section 661 of Title 2, enacted
    provisions set out as notes under section 900 of Title 2 and
    section 911 of Title 42, and amended provisions set out as a note
    under section 621 of Title 2. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 900 of
    Title 2 and Tables.
      Public Law 99-366, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-366, July
    31, 1986, 100 Stat. 773, which is set out as a note under section
    902 of Title 2.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "68".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469b. Auditing of transactions of Territorial and local
      governments

-STATUTE-
      All financial transactions of the territorial and local
    governments herein provided for, including such transactions of all
    agencies or instrumentalities established or used by such
    governments, may be audited by the Government Accountability
    Office, at its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title
    31.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 111-88, div. A, title I, Oct. 30, 2009, 123 Stat. 2920.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Herein provided for, referred to in text, means provided for in
    the appropriation act cited as the credit to this section.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is from the appropriation act cited as the credit to this
    section.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Provisions similar to those in this section were contained in the
    following prior appropriations acts:
      Pub. L. 111-8, div. E, title I, Mar. 11, 2009, 123 Stat. 717.
      Pub. L. 110-161, div. F, title I, Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 2114.
      Pub. L. 109-54, title I, Aug. 2, 2005, 119 Stat. 517.
      Pub. L. 108-447, div. E, title I, Dec. 8, 2004, 118 Stat. 3059.
      Pub. L. 108-108, title I, Nov. 10, 2003, 117 Stat. 1260; Pub. L.
    108-271, Sec. 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.
      Pub. L. 108-7, div. F, title I, Feb. 20, 2003, 117 Stat. 234.
      Pub. L. 107-63, title I, Nov. 5, 2001, 115 Stat. 433.
      Pub. L. 106-291, title I, Oct. 11, 2000, 114 Stat. 938.
      Pub. L. 106-113, div. B, Sec. 1000(a)(3) [title I], Nov. 29,
    1999, 113 Stat. 1535, 1501A-151.
      Pub. L. 105-277, div. A, Sec. 101(e) [title I], Oct. 21, 1998,
    112 Stat. 2681-231, 2681-249.
      Pub. L. 105-83, title I, Nov. 14, 1997, 111 Stat. 1558.
      Pub. L. 104-208, div. A, title I, Sec. 101(d) [title I], Sept.
    30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009-181, 3009-196.
      Pub. L. 104-134, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], Apr. 26, 1996,
    110 Stat. 1321-156, 1321-173; renumbered title I, Pub. L. 104-140,
    Sec. 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110 Stat. 1327.
      Pub. L. 103-332, title I, Sept. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 2515.
      Pub. L. 103-138, title I, Nov. 11, 1993, 107 Stat. 1394.
      Pub. L. 102-381, title I, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1392.
      Pub. L. 102-154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1007.
      Pub. L. 101-512, title I, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1932.
      Pub. L. 101-121, title I, Oct. 23, 1989, 103 Stat. 716.
      Pub. L. 100-446, title I, Sept. 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-231.
      Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], Oct. 18, 1986, 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h) [title I], Oct.
    30, 1986, 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-258.
      Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat.
    1224, 1238.
      Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], Oct. 12, 1984, 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Pub. L. 98-146, title I, Nov. 4, 1983, 97 Stat. 931.
      Pub. L. 97-394, title I, Dec. 30, 1982, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Pub. L. 97-100, title I, Dec. 23, 1981, 95 Stat. 1402.
      Pub. L. 96-514, title I, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Pub. L. 96-126, title I, Nov. 27, 1979, 93 Stat. 965.
      Pub. L. 95-465, title I, Oct. 17, 1978, 92 Stat. 1289.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469c. Availability of services, facilities, and equipment of
      agencies and instrumentalities of United States; reimbursement
      requirements

-STATUTE-
      To the extent practicable, services, facilities, and equipment of
    agencies and instrumentalities of the United States Government may
    be made available, on a reimbursable basis, to the governments of
    the territories and possessions of the United States and the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands. Reimbursements may be credited to
    the appropriation or fund of the agency or instrumentality through
    which the services, facilities, and equipment are provided. If
    otherwise authorized by law, such services, facilities, and
    equipment may be made available without reimbursement.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title VI, Sec. 603, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 90.)


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469d. General technical assistance

-STATUTE-
    (a) Assistance with matters generally within responsibility of
      governments; methods of assistance
      The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to extend to the
    governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
    the Virgin Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
    and their agencies and instrumentalities, with or without
    reimbursement, technical assistance on subjects within the
    responsibility of the respective territorial governments. Such
    assistance may be provided by the Secretary of the Interior through
    members of his staff, reimbursements to other departments or
    agencies of the Federal Government under sections 1535 and 1536 of
    title 31, grants to or cooperative agreements with such
    governments, agreements with Federal agencies or agencies of State
    or local governments, or the employment of private individuals,
    partnerships, or corporations. Technical assistance may include
    research, planning assistance, studies, and demonstration projects.
    (b) Agricultural plantings and physical facilities, assistance for
      peoples of Enewetak Atoll and Bikini Atoll
      The Secretary of the Interior is further authorized to provide
    technical assistance to, and maintenance of agricultural plantings
    and physical facilities for, the peoples from Enewetak Atoll and
    Bikini Atoll, as well as for the purchase of food and equipment and
    for the transportation of such food, equipment and persons as he
    deems necessary and appropriate until such areas produce sufficient
    food to fully sustain the residents after resettlement. This
    provision shall not cease to be applicable either before or after
    the termination of the trusteeship without the express approval of
    the United States Congress.
    (c) Extension of programs administered by Department of Agriculture
      to Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, etc.
      The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to extend, in his
    discretion, programs administered by the Department of Agriculture
    to Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa
    (hereinafter called the territories). Notwithstanding any other
    provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to
    waive or modify any statutory requirements relating to the
    provision of assistance under such programs when he deems it
    necessary in order to adapt the programs to the needs of the
    respective territory: Provided, That not less than sixty days prior
    to extending any program pursuant to this section or waiving or
    modifying any statutory requirement pursuant to this section, the
    Secretary of Agriculture shall notify the Committee on Agriculture
    and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of
    Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
    and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the
    Senate of his proposed action together with an explanation of why
    his action is necessary and the anticipated benefits to each
    territory affected. Such programs shall be carried out in
    cooperation with the respective governments of the territories and
    shall be covered by a memorandum of understanding between the
    respective territorial government and the Department of
    Agriculture. Any sums appropriated pursuant to this paragraph shall
    be allocated to the agencies of the Department of Agriculture
    concerned with the administration of programs in the territories.
    (d) Authorization of appropriations
      Effective October 1, 1981, there are authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
    purposes of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-597, title VI, Sec. 601, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3479;
    Pub. L. 103-437, Sec. 17(a)(2), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4595.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      In subsec. (a), "sections 1535 and 1536 of title 31" substituted
    in text for "the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 686)" on authority of Pub.
    L. 97-258, Sec. 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first
    section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1994 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 103-437 substituted "Natural
    Resources" for "Interior and Insular Affairs" before "of the
    House".


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1469e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1469e. Insular government purchases

-STATUTE-
      The Governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana
    Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin
    Islands are authorized to make purchases through the General
    Services Administration.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 102-247, title III, Sec. 302, Feb. 24, 1992, 106 Stat.
    38.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Similar provisions relating to the Virgin Islands, Guam, American
    Samoa, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, were
    classified to sections 1401f, 1423l, 1665, and 1682, respectively,
    of this title.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1470                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1470. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1470. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(v), Dec. 8, 1983, 97
      Stat. 1463.
      Section, R.S. Sec. 1888, prohibited any Territorial legislative
    assembly from exceeding amount appropriated by Congress for its
    annual expenses.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1470a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1470a. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat. 931,
    which provided that appropriations available for administration of
    Territories could be expended for purchase, etc., of surface
    vessels for official purposes and for commercial transportation
    expenses, was from the Department of the Interior and Related
    Agencies Appropriation Act, 1984, and was not repeated in
    subsequent appropriation acts. Similar provisions were contained in
    the following prior appropriation acts:
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1401.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 965.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1052.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 987.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 812.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 433.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 512.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 151.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 430.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 339.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 250.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 112.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 163.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 265.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 264.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1471 to 1479                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1471 to 1479. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1471 to 1479. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(w)-(ee), Dec.
      8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1463.
      Section 1471, act July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 1, 24 Stat. 170,
    prohibited legislatures of Territories of the United States from
    passing local or special laws in certain enumerated cases.
      Section 1472, acts July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 4, 24 Stat. 171;
    Aug. 22, 1911, ch. 43, 37 Stat. 33, related to limitations on
    indebtedness of political or municipal corporations and county or
    other subdivisions in any Territory.
      Section 1473, act July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 3, 24 Stat. 171,
    limited authority of Territorial legislature to contract any debt
    by or on behalf of such Territory to certain enumerated cases.
      Section 1474, act July 19, 1888, ch. 679, Sec. 2, 25 Stat. 336,
    related to creation by Territorial legislatures of new counties and
    location of county seats.
      Section 1475, act July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 2, 24 Stat. 171,
    prohibited Territorial legislature or political subdivision thereof
    from subscribing to capital stock of, or loaning its credit to, any
    incorporated company or association.
      Section 1476, act Mar. 4, 1898, ch. 35, 30 Stat. 252, authorized
    issuance of bonds by chartered municipal corporations for sanitary
    and health purposes, free of certain debt limitations.
      Section 1477, act June 6, 1900, ch. 820, 31 Stat. 683, authorized
    issuance of bonds by chartered municipal corporations for erection
    of city buildings, free of certain debt limitations.
      Section 1478, act July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 6, 24 Stat. 171,
    prohibited construction of any provision to abridge power of
    Congress from annulling any law of a Territorial legislature, or
    modifying any existing law of Congress requiring that laws of any
    Territory be submitted to Congress.
      Section 1479, act July 30, 1886, ch. 818, Sec. 7, 24 Stat. 171,
    declared null and void any acts passed by any Territorial
    legislature after July 30, 1886, in conflict with specific sections
    of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1480 to 1480b                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1480 to 1480b. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1480 to 1480b. Repealed. Pub. L. 95-584, Sec. 1, Nov. 2,
      1978, 92 Stat. 2483.
      Section 1480, R.S. Sec. 1890, related to right of religious
    corporations to hold real estate.
      Section 1480a, act Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 397, Sec. 26, 24 Stat. 641,
    related to real estate necessary for use of congregations.
      Section 1480b, act Sept. 22, 1950, ch. 986, 64 Stat. 905, related
    to inapplicability of sections 1480 and 1480a to Alaska.

                             EFFECT OF REPEAL                         
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 95-584 provided that: "This repeal
    [repealing sections 1480 to 1480b of this title] may not be
    considered or construed as endorsement, support, or permission for
    any development on or other use of any land in any territory or
    possession of the United States; nor shall it be evidence of
    congressional or other intent to confirm title to any lands in said
    territories or possessions claimed by any association, corporation,
    or other entity for religious or charitable purposes."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1481 to 1485                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1481 to 1485. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1481 to 1485. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(ff)-(jj),
      Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1463.
      Section 1481, act June 16, 1880, ch. 235, 21 Stat. 277, related
    to care and custody of convicts.
      Section 1482, R.S. Sec. 1892, placed any penitentiary erected or
    to be erected under care and control of marshal of the United
    States for Territory or District in which situated.
      Section 1483, R.S. Sec. 1893, related to promulgation of rules
    and regulations by Attorney General of the United States for
    government of such penitentiaries, and compensation of marshals and
    their deputies.
      Section 1484, R.S. Sec. 1894, related to charging compensation
    and subsistence and employment expenses of offenders sentenced to
    imprisonment in such penitentiaries.
      Section 1485, R.S. Sec. 1895, related to imprisonment at cost of
    Territory in such penitentiaries of persons convicted for violation
    of laws of Territory.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1486                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1486. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1486. Repealed. Pub. L. 87-826, Sec. 3, Oct. 15, 1962, 76
      Stat. 953.
      Section, acts Apr. 29, 1902, ch. 637, 32 Stat. 172; Feb. 14,
    1903, ch. 552, Sec. 10, 32 Stat. 829; Mar. 4, 1913, ch. 141, Sec.
    1, 37 Stat. 736; May 17, 1932, ch. 190, 47 Stat. 158; Proc. No.
    2695 eff. July 4, 1946, 11 F.R. 7517, 60 Stat. 1352; 1946 Reorg.
    Plan No. 3, Secs. 101-104, eff. July 16, 1946, 11 F.R. 7877, 60
    Stat. 1097; Apr. 7, 1948, ch. 177, 62 Stat. 161, provided that law
    as to clearance and entry of vessels was applicable to trade
    between the United States and noncontiguous Territories, etc.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Repeal of section effective 180 days after Oct. 15, 1962, see
    section 4 of Pub. L. 87-826.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1487, 1488                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1487, 1488. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1487, 1488. Repealed. Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 16(b), (kk), Dec.
      8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1462, 1463.
      Section 1487, act June 22, 1874, ch. 388, 18 Stat. 135, related
    to calling of an extraordinary session of Territorial legislature
    with approval of President of the United States.
      Section 1488, act Apr. 16, 1880, ch. 56, 21 Stat. 74, related to
    filling of vacancies in office of justice of the peace by
    appointment or election, until a successor was regularly elected
    and qualified as provided by law.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1489                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1489. Loss of title of United States to lands in territories
      through adverse possession or prescription forbidden

-STATUTE-
      On and after March 27, 1934, no prescription or statute of
    limitations shall run, or continue to run, against the title of the
    United States to lands in any territory or possession or place or
    territory under the jurisdiction or control of the United States;
    and no title to any such lands of the United States or any right
    therein shall be acquired by adverse possession or prescription, or
    otherwise than by conveyance from the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 27, 1934, ch. 99, 48 Stat. 507; Proc. No. 2695, eff. July 4,
    1946, 11 F.R. 7517, 60 Stat. 1352.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Reference to Philippine Islands omitted in view of independence
    of Philippines proclaimed by President of United States in Proc.
    No. 2695, set out under section 1394 of Title 22, Foreign Relations
    and Intercourse, and issued pursuant to section 1394 of Title 22.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1490                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1490. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1490. Repealed. Mar. 3, 1933, ch. 202, Sec. 1, 47 Stat. 1428.
      Section, R.S. Sec. 1891, related to application of United States
    Constitution and laws to all organized Territories and in every
    Territory subsequently organized. Insofar as Territories of Alaska
    and Hawaii are concerned, it is covered by sections 23 and 495 of
    this title.
      Act July 1, 1902, ch. 1369, Sec. 1, 32 Stat. 691, which was also
    cited as a credit to this section, and which was not repealed by
    the act of Mar. 3, 1933, provided that this section should not
    apply to the Philippine Islands.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1491                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1491. License, permit, etc., for transportation for storage or
      storage of spent nuclear fuel or high-level radioactive waste;
      prerequisites; applicability; "territory or possession" defined

-STATUTE-
      (a) Prior to the granting of any license, permit, or other
    authorization or permission by any agency or instrumentality of the
    United States to any person for the transportation of spent nuclear
    fuel or high-level radioactive waste for interim, long-term, or
    permanent storage to or for the storage of such fuel or waste on
    any territory or possession of the United States, the Secretary of
    the Interior is directed to transmit to the Congress a detailed
    report on the proposed transportation or storage plan, and no such
    license, permit, or other authorization or permission may be
    granted nor may any such transportation or storage occur unless the
    proposed transportation or storage plan has been specifically
    authorized by Act of Congress: Provided, That the provisions of
    this section shall not apply to the cleanup and rehabilitation of
    Bikini and Enewetak Atolls.
      (b) For the purpose of this section the words "territory or
    possession" include the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and
    any area not within the boundaries of the several States over which
    the United States claims or exercises sovereignty.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title VI, Sec. 605, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 90.)


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1492                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1492. Energy resources of Caribbean and Pacific insular areas

-STATUTE-
    (a) Congressional findings
      The Congress finds that - 
        (1) the Caribbean and Pacific insular areas of Puerto Rico, the
      Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana
      Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall
      Islands, and Palau are virtually completely dependent on imported
      sources of energy;
        (2) the dependence of such areas on imported sources of energy
      coupled with the increasing cost and the uncertain availability
      and supply of such sources of energy will continue to frustrate
      the political, social, and economic development of such areas by
      placing increasingly severe fiscal burdens on the local
      governments of these areas;
        (3) these insular areas are endowed with a variety of renewable
      sources of energy which, if developed, would alleviate their
      dependence on imported sources of energy, relieve the fiscal
      burden on local governments imposed by the costs of imported
      fuel, and strengthen the base for political, social, and economic
      development;
        (4) appropriate technologies are presently available to develop
      the renewable energy resources of these insular areas but that
      comprehensive energy plans have not been adequately developed to
      meet the energy demands of these areas from renewable energy
      resources;
        (5) electric power transmission and distribution lines in
      insular areas are inadequate to withstand damage caused by the
      hurricanes and typhoons which frequently occur in insular areas
      and such damage often costs millions of dollars to repair; and
        (6) the refinement of renewable energy technologies since the
      publication of the 1982 Territorial Energy Assessment prepared
      pursuant to subsection (c) of this section reveals the need to
      reassess the state of energy production, consumption,
      infrastructure, reliance on imported energy, opportunities for
      energy conservation and increased energy efficiency, and
      indigenous sources in regard to the insular areas.
    (b) Congressional declaration of policy
      The Congress declares that it is the policy of the Federal
    Government to - 
        (1) develop the renewable energy resources of the Caribbean and
      Pacific insular areas of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
      American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated
      States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau; and
        (2) to assist other insular areas in the Caribbean and Pacific
      Basin in the development of their renewable energy resources.
    (c) Comprehensive energy plan
      The Secretary of Energy or any administrative official who may
    succeed him shall prepare a comprehensive energy plan with emphasis
    on indigenous renewable sources of energy for Puerto Rico, the
    Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands,
    the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands and Palau.
    The plan shall be prepared with the approval of the Secretary of
    the Interior and in cooperation with the chief executive officer of
    each insular area by - 
        (1) surveying existing sources and uses of energy;
        (2) estimating future energy needs to the year 2020, giving due
      consideration to a range of economic development possibilities;
        (3) assessing, in depth, the availability and potential for
      development of indigenous energy sources, including solar, wind,
      hydropower, ocean current and tidal, biogas, biofuel, geothermal
      and ocean thermal energy conversion;
        (4) assessing the mix of energy sources (including fossil
      fuels) and identifying those technologies that are needed to meet
      the projected demands for energy; and
        (5) drafting long-term energy plans for such insular areas with
      the objective of minimizing their reliance on energy imports and
      making maximum use of their indigenous energy resources.
    (d) Demonstration of cost effective renewable energy technologies
      The Secretary of Energy or any administrative official who may
    succeed him, with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior, as
    part of the comprehensive energy planning may demonstrate those
    indigenous renewable energy technologies which are determined to be
    most cost effective through the use of existing programs and may
    implement any projects or programs contained in recommendations of
    the plan.
    (e) Updating of plans; submission to Congress
      (1) The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the
    Secretary of Energy and the head of government of each insular
    area, shall update the plans required under subsection (c) of this
    section by - 
        (A) updating the contents required by subsection (c) of this
      section;
        (B) drafting long-term energy plans for such insular areas with
      the objective of reducing, to the extent feasible, their reliance
      on energy imports by the year 2012, increasing energy
      conservation and energy efficiency, and maximizing, to the extent
      feasible, use of indigenous energy sources; and
        (C) drafting long-term energy transmission line plans for such
      insular areas with the objective that the maximum percentage
      feasible of electric power transmission and distribution lines in
      each insular area be protected from damage caused by hurricanes
      and typhoons.

      (2) In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary of Energy
    shall identify and evaluate the strategies or projects with the
    greatest potential for reducing the dependence on imported fossil
    fuels as used for the generation of electricity, including
    strategies and projects for - 
        (A) improved supply-side efficiency of centralized electrical
      generation, transmission, and distribution systems;
        (B) improved demand-side management through - 
          (i) the application of established standards for energy
        efficiency for appliances;
          (ii) the conduct of energy audits for business and industrial
        customers; and
          (iii) the use of energy savings performance contracts;

        (C) increased use of renewable energy, including - 
          (i) solar thermal energy for electric generation;
          (ii) solar thermal energy for water heating in large
        buildings, such as hotels, hospitals, government buildings, and
        residences;
          (iii) photovoltaic energy;
          (iv) wind energy;
          (v) hydroelectric energy;
          (vi) wave energy;
          (vii) energy from ocean thermal resources, including ocean
        thermal-cooling for community air conditioning;
          (viii) water vapor condensation for the production of potable
        water;
          (ix) fossil fuel and renewable hybrid electrical generation
        systems; and
          (x) other strategies or projects that the Secretary may
        identify as having significant potential; and

        (D) fuel substitution and minimization with indigenous
      biofuels, such as coconut oil.

      (3) In carrying out this subsection, for each insular area with a
    significant need for distributed generation, the Secretary of
    Energy shall identify and evaluate the most promising strategies
    and projects described in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph
    (2) for meeting that need.
      (4) In assessing the potential of any strategy or project under
    paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary of Energy shall consider - 
        (A) the estimated cost of the power or energy to be produced,
      including - 
          (i) any additional costs associated with the distribution of
        the generation; and
          (ii) the long-term availability of the generation source;

        (B) the capacity of the local electrical utility to manage,
      operate, and maintain any project that may be undertaken; and
        (C) other factors the Secretary of Energy considers to be
      appropriate.

      (5) Not later than 1 year after August 8, 2005, the Secretary of
    the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural
    Resources of the Senate, the Committee on Resources of the House of
    Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
    House of Representatives, the updated plans for each insular area
    required by this subsection.
    (f) Authorization of appropriations
      There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
    be necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (g) Financial assistance
      (1) The Secretary of Energy may grant financial assistance, not
    to exceed $2,000,000 annually, to insular area governments or
    private sector persons working in cooperation with insular area
    governments to carry out projects to evaluate the feasibility of,
    develop options for, and encourage the adoption of energy
    efficiency and renewable energy measures which reduce the
    dependency of the insular areas on imported fuels, improve the
    quality of the environment, and promote development in the insular
    areas.
      (2) Any applicant for financial assistance under this subsection
    must evidence coordination and cooperation with, and support from,
    the affected local energy institutions.
      (3) In determining the amount of financial assistance to be
    provided for a proposed project, the Secretary shall consider - 
        (A) whether the measure will reduce the relative dependence of
      the insular area on imported fuels;
        (B) the ease and costs of operation and maintenance of any
      facilities contemplated as a part of the project;
        (C) whether the project will rely on the use of conservation
      measures or indigenous, renewable energy resources that were
      identified in the 1982 Territorial Energy Assessment or that are
      identified by the Secretary as consistent with the purposes of
      this subsection;
        (D) whether the measure will contribute significantly to
      development and the quality of the environment in the insular
      area; and
        (E) any other factors which the Secretary may determine to be
      relevant to a particular project.

      (4) Power line grants for insular areas. - 
        (A) In general. - The Secretary of the Interior is authorized
      to make grants to governments of insular areas of the United
      States to carry out eligible projects to protect electric power
      transmission and distribution lines in such insular areas from
      damage caused by hurricanes and typhoons.
        (B) Eligible projects. - The Secretary of the Interior may
      award grants under subparagraph (A) only to governments of
      insular areas of the United States that submit written project
      plans to the Secretary for projects that meet the following
      criteria:
          (i) The project is designed to protect electric power
        transmission and distribution lines located in 1 or more of the
        insular areas of the United States from damage caused by
        hurricanes and typhoons.
          (ii) The project is likely to substantially reduce the risk
        of future damage, hardship, loss, or suffering.
          (iii) The project addresses 1 or more problems that have been
        repetitive or that pose a significant risk to public health and
        safety.
          (iv) The project is not likely to cost more than the value of
        the reduction in direct damage and other negative impacts that
        the project is designed to prevent or mitigate. The cost
        benefit analysis required by this criterion shall be computed
        on a net present value basis.
          (v) The project design has taken into consideration long-term
        changes to the areas and persons it is designed to protect and
        has manageable future maintenance and modification
        requirements.
          (vi) The project plan includes an analysis of a range of
        options to address the problem it is designed to prevent or
        mitigate and a justification for the selection of the project
        in light of that analysis.
          (vii) The applicant has demonstrated to the Secretary that
        the matching funds required by subparagraph (D) are available.

        (C) Priority. - When making grants under this paragraph, the
      Secretary of the Interior shall give priority to grants for
      projects which are likely to - 
          (i) have the greatest impact on reducing future disaster
        losses; and
          (ii) best conform with plans that have been approved by the
        Federal Government or the government of the insular area where
        the project is to be carried out for development or hazard
        mitigation for that insular area.

        (D) Matching requirement. - The Federal share of the cost for a
      project for which a grant is provided under this paragraph shall
      not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of that project. The non-
      Federal share of the cost may be provided in the form of cash or
      services.
        (E) Treatment of funds for certain purposes. - Grants provided
      under this paragraph shall not be considered as income, a
      resource, or a duplicative program when determining eligibility
      or benefit levels for Federal major disaster and emergency
      assistance.
        (F) Authorization of appropriations. - There are authorized to
      be appropriated to carry out this paragraph $6,000,000 for each
      fiscal year beginning after August 8, 2005.

      (5) For the purposes of this subsection - 
        (A) the term "insular area" means American Samoa, the
      Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Commonwealth of
      Puerto Rico, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the
      Virgin Islands; and
        (B) the term "1982 Territorial Energy Assessment" means the
      comprehensive energy plan prepared by the Secretary of Energy
      pursuant to subsection (c) of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-597, title VI, Sec. 604, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3480;
    Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 7, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1460; Pub. L. 102-
    486, title XXVII, Sec. 2701, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3118; Pub.
    L. 109-58, title II, Sec. 251, Aug. 8, 2005, 119 Stat. 679.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      August 8, 2005, referred to in subsecs. (e)(5) and (g)(4)(F), was
    in the original "the date of enactment of this subsection" and "the
    date of enactment of this paragraph", respectively, and was
    translated as meaning the date of enactment of Pub. L. 109-58 which
    amended subsecs. (e) and (g)(4) generally, to reflect the probable
    intent of Congress.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2005 - Subsec. (a)(5), (6). Pub. L. 109-58, Sec. 251(1), (2),
    added pars. (5) and (6).
      Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 109-58, Sec. 251(3), amended subsec. (e)
    generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (e) read as follows: "Within
    two years from December 24, 1980, the Secretary of Energy or any
    administrative official who may succeed him shall submit the
    comprehensive energy plan for each insular area to the Congress."
      Subsec. (g)(4). Pub. L. 109-58, Sec. 251(4), amended par. (4)
    generally. Prior to amendment, par. (4) read as follows:
    "Notwithstanding the requirements of section 1469a(d) of this
    title, the Secretary shall require at least 20 percent of the costs
    of any project under this subsection to be provided from non-
    Federal sources. Such cost sharing may be in the form of in-kind
    services, donated equipment, or any combination thereof."
      1992 - Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 102-486 added subsec. (g).
      1983 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 98-213 inserted "and may implement
    any projects or programs contained in recommendations of the plan".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to
    Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives by House
    Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5, 2007.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1493                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1493. Prosecution; authorization to seek review; local or
      Federal appellate courts; decisions, judgments or orders

-STATUTE-
      The prosecution in a territory or Commonwealth is authorized -
    unless precluded by local law - to seek review or other suitable
    relief in the appropriate local or Federal appellate court, or,
    where applicable, in the Supreme Court of the United States from - 
        (a) a decision, judgment, or order of a trial court dismissing
      an indictment or information as to any one or more counts, except
      that no review shall lie where the constitutional prohibition
      against double jeopardy would further prosecution;
        (b) a decision or order of a trial court suppressing or
      excluding evidence or requiring the return of seized property in
      a criminal proceeding, not made after the defendant has been put
      in jeopardy and before the verdict or finding on an indictment or
      information, if the prosecution certifies to the trial court that
      the appeal is not taken for purpose of delay and that the
      evidence is a substantial proof of a fact material in the
      proceeding; and
        (c) an adverse decision, judgment, or order of an appellate
      court.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 98-454, title X, Sec. 1003, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1746.)


-MISC1-
                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1494                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1494. Purposes

-STATUTE-
      The purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title are to
    improve enforcement of drug laws and enhance interdiction of
    illicit drug shipments in the Caribbean and Pacific territories and
    commonwealths of the United States and the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands (or successor governments) and to assist public and
    private sector drug abuse and other substance prevention and
    treatment programs in United States associated insular areas.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-570, title V, Sec. 5002, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-
    154; Pub. L. 100-690, title IX, Sec. 9308, Nov. 18, 1988, 102
    Stat. 4538.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1988 - Pub. L. 100-690 inserted "and the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands (or successor governments)" after "commonwealths of
    the United States", "and other substance" before "prevention", and
    "associated" before "insular areas.".

                       SHORT TITLE OF 1988 AMENDMENT                   
      Section 9301(a) of Pub. L. 100-690 provided that: "This subtitle
    [subtitle D (Secs. 9301-9310) of title IX of Pub. L. 100-690,
    enacting section 1494c of this title and amending this section and
    sections 1494a and 1494b of this title and section 10603 of Title
    42, The Public Health and Welfare] may be cited as the 'Insular
    Areas Drug Abuse Amendments of 1988'."

                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Section 5001 of title V of Pub. L. 99-570 provided that: "This
    subtitle [subtitle A (Secs. 5001-5004) of title V of Pub. L. 99-
    570, enacting this section and sections 1494a and 1494b of this
    title] may be cited as the 'United States Insular Areas Drug Abuse
    Act of 1986'."


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1494a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1494a. Annual reports to Congress

-STATUTE-
    (a) In general
      The President shall report annually to the Congress as to - 
        (1) the efforts and success of Federal agencies in preventing
      the illegal entry into the United States of controlled substances
      from the insular areas of the United States outside the customs
      territory of the United States, the Trust Territory of the
      Pacific Islands, and states freely associated with the United
      States and the nature and extent of such illegal entry, and
        (2) the efforts and success of Federal agencies in preventing
      the illegal entry from other nations, including states freely
      associated with the United States, of controlled substances into
      the United States territories, the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, and the commonwealths for use in the territories, the
      Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and commonwealths or for
      transshipment to the United States and the nature and extent of
      such illegal entry and use.
    (b) Transmission date
      The annual reports required by subsection (a) of this section
    shall be transmitted to the Committee on Natural Resources of the
    United States House of Representatives and to the Committee on
    Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate not later
    than the first day of October each year.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-570, title V, Sec. 5003, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-
    155; Pub. L. 100-690, title IX, Sec. 9309, Nov. 18, 1988, 102
    Stat. 4539; Pub. L. 103-437, Sec. 17(a)(3), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat.
    4595.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1994 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 103-437 substituted "Natural
    Resources" for "Interior and Insular Affairs" before "of the United
    States House".
      1988 - Pub. L. 100-690 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a) and inserted heading, inserted ", the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands," before "and states" in par. (1) and after
    "territories" in two places in par. (2), and added subsec. (b).


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1494b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1494b. Enforcement and administration in insular areas

-STATUTE-
    (a) American Samoa
      (1) With the approval of the Attorney General of the United
    States or his designee, law enforcement officers of the Government
    of American Samoa are authorized to - 
        (A) execute and serve warrants, subpoenas, and summons issued
      under the authority of the United States;
        (B) make arrests without warrant; and
        (C) make seizures of property to carry out the purposes of
      sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, the Controlled Substances
      Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951-970), and any other
      applicable narcotics laws of the United States.

      (2) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services of the United States, as appropriate, are
    authorized to and, upon request of the Government of American
    Samoa, shall - 
        (A) train law enforcement officers and other personnel of the
      Government of American Samoa, and
        (B) provide by purchase or lease law enforcement equipment and
      technical assistance to the Government of American Samoa to carry
      out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any
      other Federal or territorial drug or other substance abuse laws.

      (3) There are authorized to be appropriated $350,000 for fiscal
    year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of
    American Samoa to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by
    the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney
    General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human
    Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of
    this title, to remain available until expended.
      (4) The Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the
    Secretary of the Interior shall provide the Government of American
    Samoa with a vessel to be used in the enforcement of narcotics and
    other laws. There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for
    this purpose.
    (b) Guam
      (1) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and,
    upon request of the Government of Guam, shall provide appropriate
    training, technical assistance and equipment to the Government of
    Guam to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this
    title and any other Federal or territorial drug or other substance
    abuse law.
      (2) There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal
    year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of
    Guam to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the
    Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General
    and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services, to
    carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, to
    remain available until expended.
      (3) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Government of
    Guam $500,000 for grants to be expended in accordance with a plan
    approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the
    Attorney General for drug abuse law enforcement equipment.
    (c) Northern Mariana Islands
      (1) With the approval of the Attorney General of the United
    States or his designee, law enforcement officers of the Government
    of the Northern Mariana Islands are authorized to - 
        (A) execute and serve warrants, subpoenas, and summons issued
      under the authority of the United States;
        (B) make arrests without warrant; and
        (C) make seizures of property to carry out the purposes of
      sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, the Controlled Substances
      Import and Export Act (21 U.S.C. 951-970), and any other
      applicable narcotics laws of the United States.

      (2) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services of the United States, as appropriate, are
    authorized to and, upon request of the Government of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, shall - 
        (A) train law enforcement officers and other personnel of the
      Government of the Northern Mariana Islands, and
        (B) provide, by purchase or lease, law enforcement equipment
      and technical assistance to the Government of the Northern
      Mariana Islands to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to
      1494c of this title and any other Federal or commonwealth drug or
      other substance abuse law.

      (3) There are authorized to be appropriated $125,000 for fiscal
    year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands to be expended in accordance with a
    plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with
    the Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health
    and Human Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to
    1494c of this title, to remain available until expended.
      (4) Federal personnel and equipment assigned to Guam pursuant to
    subsection (b) of this section shall also be available to carry out
    the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title in the
    Northern Mariana Islands.
    (d) Puerto Rico
      (1) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the
    Government of Puerto Rico $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1989 and
    $2,000,000 annually thereafter for grants to the Government of
    Puerto Rico to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of
    this title to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the
    Executive Director of the White House Task Force on Puerto Rico in
    consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of
    Education and Health and Human Services, to remain available until
    expended.
      (2) The United States Customs Service should station an aerostat
    in Puerto Rico.
      (3) Equipment provided to the Government of Puerto Rico pursuant
    to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be made available upon
    request to the Federal agencies involved in drug interdiction in
    Puerto Rico.
      (4)(A) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and,
    upon request of the Government of Puerto Rico, shall provide
    appropriate training, technical assistance and equipment to the
    Government of Puerto Rico to carry out the purposes of sections
    1494 to 1494c of this title and any other Federal or commonwealth
    drug or other substance abuse law.
      (B) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to carry out subparagraph (A). Funds appropriated under
    this subparagraph shall remain available until expended.
    (e) Virgin Islands
      (1) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the
    Government of the Virgin Islands, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1990
    and annually thereafter to carry out the purposes of sections 1494
    to 1494c of this title to be expended in accordance with a plan
    approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the
    Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and
    Human Services, to remain available until expended.
      (2) The United States Coast Guard shall station a patrol vessel
    in St. Croix, Virgin Islands.
      (3)(A) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services of the United States may provide and,
    upon request of the Government of the Virgin Islands, shall provide
    appropriate training, technical assistance and equipment to the
    Government of the United States Virgin Islands to carry out the
    purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other
    Federal or territorial drug or other substance abuse law.
      (B) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to carry out subparagraph (A). Funds appropriated under
    this subparagraph shall remain available until expended.
      (4) To assist in the prosecution of the violation of the
    narcotics laws of the United States, the Attorney General of the
    United States shall assign the necessary personnel to serve in the
    office of the United States Attorney for the Virgin Islands
    appointed pursuant to section 1617 of this title.
      (5) Effective fiscal year 1989, there are authorized to be
    appropriated for a grant to the Government of the Virgin Islands
    $2,500,000 to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the
    Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Secretary of
    Health and Human Services for a substance abuse facility.
    (f) Palau
      (1) The Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and
    Health and Human Services are authorized to and, upon request of
    the Government of Palau, shall provide appropriate training,
    technical assistance, and equipment to carry out the purposes of
    sections 1494 to 1494c of this title and any other applicable
    Federal or insular drug or other substance abuse laws.
      (2) There are authorized to be appropriated $500,000 for fiscal
    year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants to the Government of
    Palau to be expended in accordance with a plan to be approved by
    the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney
    General and the Secretaries of Education, State, and Health and
    Human Services to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c
    of this title.
      (3) To the extent not prohibited under the Constitution of Palau,
    upon written request of the President of Palau, the Drug
    Enforcement Administration, the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
    the Secret Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and
    the Customs Service are authorized to investigate any United States
    criminal laws which are applicable in Palau in cooperation with law
    enforcement agencies of Palau.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-570, title V, Sec. 5004, Oct. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 3207-
    155; Pub. L. 100-690, title IX, Secs. 9302-9305, 9306(b), 9307,
    Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4536-4538.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Controlled Substances Import and Export Act, referred to in
    subsecs. (a)(1)(C), (c)(1)(C), is title III of Pub. L. 91-513, Oct.
    27, 1970, 84 Stat. 1285, as amended, which is classified
    principally to subchapter II (Sec. 951 et seq.) of chapter 13 of
    Title 21, Food and Drugs. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 951 of
    Title 21 and Tables.
      Sections 1494 to 1494c of this title, referred to in subsecs.
    (a)(3), (b)(2), (c)(3), (d)(1), (e)(1), and (f)(1), (2), was in the
    original "this Act", and was translated as reading "this subtitle"
    meaning subtitle A of title V of Pub. L. 99-570 to reflect the
    probable intent of Congress. See Short Title note set out under
    section 1494 of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1988 - Subsec. (a)(2). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9302(1), substituted
    "Secretaries of Education and" for "Secretary of" and inserted ",
    as appropriate," after "States", "and, upon request of the
    Government of American Samoa, shall" after "are authorized to",
    "and other personnel" after "officers", and "or other substance"
    after "drug".
      Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9302(2), substituted
    "$350,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants
    to the Government of American Samoa to be expended in accordance
    with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in
    consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of
    Education and Health and Human Services" for "$700,000" and
    "sections 1494 to 1494c of this title" for "this subsection".
      Subsec. (a)(4). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9302(3), added par. (4).
      Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9303(1), substituted
    "Secretaries of Education and" for "Secretary of" and inserted
    "and, upon request of the Government of Guam, shall provide
    appropriate training," after "may provide" and "or other substance"
    after "drug".
      Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9303(2), substituted
    "$500,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants
    to the Government of Guam to be expended in accordance with a plan
    approved by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the
    Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and
    Human Services, to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c
    of this title, to" for "$1,000,000 to carry out paragraph (1).
    Funds appropriated under this paragraph shall".
      Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9303(3), added par. (3).
      Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9304(1), substituted "The
    Attorney General and the Secretaries of Education and Health and
    Human Services of the United States, as appropriate, are authorized
    to and, upon request of the Government of the Northern Mariana
    Islands, shall" for "The Attorney General of the United States and
    the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, are
    authorized to" in introductory provisions, inserted "and other
    personnel" after "officers" in subpar. (A), and inserted "or other
    substance" after "drug" in subpar. (B).
      Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9304(2), substituted
    "$125,000 for fiscal year 1989 and annually thereafter for grants
    to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands to be expended in
    accordance with a plan approved by the Secretary of the Interior in
    consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of
    Education and Health and Human Services" for "$250,000" and
    "sections 1494 to 1494c of this title" for "this subsection".
      Subsec. (d)(1). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9305(1), substituted
    "Puerto Rico $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1989 and $2,000,000
    annually thereafter for grants to the Government of Puerto Rico to
    carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of this title to
    be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the Executive
    Director of the White House Task Force on Puerto Rico in
    consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretaries of
    Education and Health and Human Services, to remain available until
    expended." for "Puerto Rico - 
        "(A) $3,300,000 for the purchase of 2 helicopters;
        "(B) $3,500,000 for the purchase of an aircraft; and
        "(C) $1,000,000 for the purchase and maintenance of 5 high-
      speed vessels.
    Sums appropriated under this paragraph shall remain available until
    expended."
      Subsec. (d)(4)(A). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9305(2), substituted
    "Secretaries of Education and" for "Secretary of" and inserted
    "and, upon request of the Government of Puerto Rico, shall provide
    appropriate training," after "may provide" and "or other substance"
    after "drug".
      Subsec. (e)(1). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9306(b)(1), substituted
    "Virgin Islands, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1990 and annually
    thereafter to carry out the purposes of sections 1494 to 1494c of
    this title to be expended in accordance with a plan approved by the
    Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the Attorney General
    and the Secretaries of Education and Health and Human Services, to
    remain available until expended." for "Virgin Islands - 
        "(A) $3,000,000 for 2 patrol vessels, tracking equipment,
      supplies, and agents, and
        "(B) $1,000,000 for programs to prevent and treat narcotics
      abuse, such sums to remain available until expended."
      Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9306(b)(2), substituted
    "shall" for "should".
      Subsec. (e)(3)(A). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9306(b)(3), substituted
    "Secretaries of Education and" for "Secretary of" and inserted
    "and, upon request of the Government of the Virgin Islands, shall
    provide appropriate training," after "may provide" and "or other
    substance" after "drug".
      Subsec. (e)(4), (5). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9306(b)(4), added
    pars. (4) and (5).
      Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 100-690, Sec. 9307, added subsec. (f).


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of
    the United States Customs Service of the Department of the
    Treasury, including functions of the Secretary of the Treasury
    relating thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for
    treatment of related references, see sections 203(1), 551(d),
    552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the Department
    of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25, 2002, as
    modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.
      For transfer of the functions, personnel, assets, and obligations
    of the United States Secret Service, including the functions of the
    Secretary of the Treasury relating thereto, to the Secretary of
    Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see
    sections 381, 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic
    Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization
    Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under
    section 542 of Title 6.
      For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of
    the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the
    Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of
    Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see
    sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic
    Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization
    Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under
    section 542 of Title 6.

    ABOLITION OF IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE AND TRANSFER OF
                                 FUNCTIONS
      For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service, transfer
    of functions, and treatment of related references, see note set out
    under section 1551 of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1494c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 10 - TERRITORIAL PROVISIONS OF A GENERAL NATURE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1494c. Drug Enforcement Agency personnel assignments

-STATUTE-
      To assist in the enforcement of the controlled substances laws of
    the United States in coordination with law enforcement officers in
    insular areas in the eastern Caribbean and in the central and
    western Pacific, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement
    Administration shall assign appropriate personnel and other
    resources to the Virgin Islands and Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-570, title V, Sec. 5005, as added Pub. L. 100-690,
    title IX, Sec. 9310, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4539.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
                     CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND                 

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1501.       Lands in Territories.                                 
    1502.       Previously acquired lands; bona fide resident aliens;
                 mining or incorporated village lands.                
    1503.       Acquisition by inheritance, in collection of debts,
                 etc.                                                 
    1504.       Conveyance of lands in Territories by aliens before
                 escheat proceedings.                                 
    1505.       Proceedings for escheat of improperly held lands.     
    1506.       Condemnation and sale of lands in escheat proceedings.
    1507.       Public lands.                                         
    1508.       Application to District of Columbia.                  
    1509 to 1512. Omitted.                                            

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1501                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1501. Lands in Territories

-STATUTE-
      No alien or person who is not a citizen of the United States, or
    who has not declared his intention to become a citizen of the
    United States in the manner provided by law shall acquire title to
    or own any land in any of the Territories of the United States
    except as hereinafter provided. The prohibition of this section
    shall not apply to cases in which the right to hold or dispose of
    lands in the United States is secured by existing treaties to
    citizens or subjects of foreign countries, which rights, so far as
    they may exist by force of any such treaty, shall continue to exist
    so long as such treaties are in force, and no longer.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 1, 24 Stat. 476; Mar. 2, 1897, ch.
    363, 29 Stat. 618.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 71 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1502                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1502. Previously acquired lands; bona fide resident aliens;
      mining or incorporated village lands

-STATUTE-
      This chapter shall not apply to land owned in any of the
    Territories of the United States by aliens, which was acquired on
    or before March 3, 1887, so long as it is held by the then owners,
    their heirs or legal representatives, nor to any alien who shall
    become a bona fide resident of the United States, and any alien who
    shall become a bona fide resident of the United States, or shall
    have declared his intention to become a citizen of the United
    States in the manner provided by law, shall have the right to
    acquire and hold lands in either of the Territories of the United
    States upon the same terms as citizens of the United States. If any
    such resident alien shall cease to be a bona fide resident of the
    United States then such alien shall have ten years from the time he
    ceases to be such bona fide resident in which to alienate such
    lands. This chapter shall not be construed to prevent any persons
    not citizens of the United States from acquiring or holding lots or
    parcels of lands in any incorporated or platted city, town, or
    village, or in any mine or mining claim, in any of the Territories
    of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 2, 24 Stat. 477; Mar. 2, 1897, ch.
    363, 29 Stat. 618.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 72 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1503                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1503. Acquisition by inheritance, in collection of debts, etc.

-STATUTE-
      This chapter shall not prevent aliens from acquiring lands or any
    interests therein by inheritance or in the ordinary course of
    justice in the collection of debts, nor from acquiring liens on
    real estate or any interest therein, nor from lending money and
    securing the same upon real estate or any interest therein; nor
    from enforcing any such lien, nor from acquiring and holding title
    to such real estate, or any interest therein, upon which a lien may
    have heretofore or may hereafter be fixed, or upon which a loan of
    money may have been heretofore or hereafter may be made and
    secured. All lands so acquired shall be sold within ten years after
    title shall be perfected in him under said sale or the same shall
    escheat to the United States and be forfeited as provided in
    sections 1504 to 1507 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 3, 24 Stat. 477; Mar. 2, 1897, ch.
    363, 29 Stat. 618.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 73 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1504                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1504. Conveyance of lands in Territories by aliens before
      escheat proceedings

-STATUTE-
      Any alien who shall hold lands in any of the Territories of the
    United States in contravention of the provisions of this chapter
    may nevertheless convey his title thereto at any time before the
    institution of escheat proceedings as hereinafter provided. If any
    such conveyance shall be made by such alien, either to an alien or
    to a citizen of the United States, in trust and for the purpose and
    with the intention of evading the provisions of this chapter, such
    conveyance shall be null and void, and any such lands so conveyed
    shall be forfeited and escheat to the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 4, 24 Stat. 477; Mar. 2, 1897, ch.
    363, 29 Stat. 618.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 74 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1505                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1505. Proceedings for escheat of improperly held lands

-STATUTE-
      It shall be the duty of the Attorney General of the United
    States, when he shall be informed or have reason to believe that
    lands in any of the Territories of the United States are being held
    contrary to the provisions of this chapter, to institute or cause
    to be instituted suit in behalf of the United States in the
    district court of the Territory in the district where such land or
    a part thereof may be situated, praying for the escheat of the same
    on behalf of the United States to the United States. Before any
    such suit is instituted the Attorney General shall give or cause to
    be given ninety days' notice by registered letter of his intention
    to sue, or by personal notice directed to or delivered to the owner
    of said land, or the person who last rendered the same for
    taxation, or his agent, and to all other persons having an interest
    in such lands of which he may have actual or constructive notice.
    In the event personal notice cannot be obtained in some one of the
    modes above provided, then said notice shall be given by
    publication in some newspaper published in the county where the
    land is situate, and if no newspaper is published in said county
    then the said notice shall be published in some newspaper nearest
    said county.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 5, as added Mar. 2, 1897, ch. 363, 29
    Stat. 619.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 75 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1506                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1506. Condemnation and sale of lands in escheat proceedings

-STATUTE-
      If it shall be determined upon the trial of any such escheat
    proceedings that the lands are held contrary to the provisions of
    this chapter, the court trying said cause shall render judgment
    condemning such lands and shall order the same to be sold as under
    execution; and the proceeds of such sale, after deducting costs of
    such suit, shall be paid to the clerk of such court so rendering
    judgment, and said fund shall remain in the hands of such clerk for
    one year from the date of such payment, subject to the order of the
    alien owner of such lands, or his heirs or legal representatives;
    and if not claimed within the period of one year, such clerk shall
    pay the same into the treasury of the Territory in which the lands
    may be situated, for the benefit of the available school fund of
    said Territory. The defendant in any such escheat proceedings may,
    at any time before final judgment, suggest and show to the court
    that he has conformed with the law, either becoming a bona fide
    resident of the United States, or by declaring his intention of
    becoming a citizen of the United States, or by the doing or
    happening of any other act which, under the provisions of this
    chapter, would entitle him to hold or own real estate, which being
    admitted or proved, such suit shall be dismissed on payment of
    costs and a reasonable attorney fee to be fixed by the court.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 6, as added Mar. 2, 1897, ch. 363, 29
    Stat. 619.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 76 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1507                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1507. Public lands

-STATUTE-
      This chapter shall not in any manner be construed to authorize
    aliens to acquire title from the United States to any of the public
    lands of the United States or to in any manner affect or change the
    laws regulating the disposal of the public lands of the United
    States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, Sec. 7, as added Mar. 2, 1897, ch. 363, 29
    Stat. 619; amended Feb. 23, 1905, ch. 733, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 733.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Act Feb. 23, 1905, set out as section 1508 of this title, made
    sections 1501 to 1507 of this title applicable to the District of
    Columbia, on the basis of which certain provisions of this section
    were omitted.
      Section was formerly classified to section 77 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1508                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1508. Application to District of Columbia

-STATUTE-
      Aliens shall have the same rights and privileges concerning the
    acquisition, holding, owning, and disposition of real estate in the
    District of Columbia as are conferred upon aliens in respect of
    real estate in the Territories of the United States by this
    chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Feb. 23, 1905, ch. 733, Sec. 1, 33 Stat. 733.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 78 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.
      Section was not enacted as part of act Mar. 3, 1887, ch. 340, 24
    Stat. 476, which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                  REPEALS                              
      Section 2 of act Feb. 23, 1905, repealed all laws and parts of
    laws so far as they conflict with the provisions of this section.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1509 to 1512                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 11 - ALIEN OWNERS OF LAND

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1509 to 1512. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1509 to 1512, relating to Territory of Hawaii, were
    omitted in view of the admission of Hawaii into the Union. Sections
    were formerly classified to sections 83 to 86 of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality.
      Section 1509, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(f), 31 Stat.
    154; May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117, set out requirements for aliens who
    would be entitled to receive any certificate of occupation, right
    of purchase lease, cash freehold agreement, or special homestead
    agreement in public lands in Hawaii. Section was also classified to
    section 667 of this title.
      Section 1510, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(g), 31 Stat.
    154; May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 304, 42 Stat. 117, restricted conveyance or other transfer
    of public lands in Hawaii to aliens. Section was also classified to
    section 668 of this title.
      Section 1511, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 338, Sec. 73(j), 31 Stat.
    154; May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 306, 42 Stat. 118, gave commissioner, with approval of
    governor, the right to give preferences in purchasing of public
    lands. Section was also classified to section 671 of this title.
      Section 1512, acts Apr. 30, 1900, ch. 339, Sec. 73(l), 31 Stat.
    154; May 27, 1910, ch. 258, Sec. 5, 36 Stat. 444; July 9, 1921, ch.
    42, Sec. 308, 42 Stat. 118, authorized sale of agricultural land in
    Hawaii for residential purposes to persons declaring intention to
    become citizens. Section was also classified to section 673 of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                        CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS                    


-MISC1-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 
    Sec.                                                     
    1541.       Organization and status.                              
    1542.       Voting franchise; discrimination prohibited.          
    1543.       United States citizenship requirement for government
                 officials.                                           
    1544.       Reports by Governor; jurisdiction of Secretary of the
                 Interior; exceptions.                                
    1545.       Lease and sale of public property; conveyance of title
                 in certain lands to the government of Virgin Islands.
    1546.       Authorization of appropriations.                      

                      SUBCHAPTER II - BILL OF RIGHTS                  
    1561.       Rights and prohibitions.                              

                    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH                
    1571.       Legislature.                                          
    1572.       Legislators.                                          
    1573.       Time, frequency, and duration of regular sessions;
                 special sessions; place of holding.                  
    1574.       Legislative powers and activities.                    
    1574-1.     Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1)
                 of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
                 Northern Mariana Islands.                            
    1574a.      Revenue bonds or other obligations.                   
    1574b.      Federal guarantee for issuance of revenue bonds or
                 other obligations.                                   
    1574c.      Priority for payment of principal and interest of
                 revenue bonds or other obligations.                  
    1574d.      Repealed.                                             
    1575.       Legislative procedure.                                
    1576.       General elections; time; transfer of Council
                 functions, property, etc.                            

                     SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH                 
    1591.       Governor and Lieutenant Governor; election;
                 eligibility; official residence; powers and duties;
                 report.                                              
    1592.       Repealed.                                             
    1593.       Initiative and recall.                                
    1594.       Repealed.                                             
    1595.       Vacancy in office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor. 
    1596.       Repealed.                                             
    1597.       Reorganization of government.                         
    1598.       Omitted.                                              
    1599.       Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
                 Virgin Islands to Inspector General, Department of
                 the Interior.                                        

                      SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH                  
    1611.       District Court of Virgin Islands; local courts;
                 jurisdiction; practice and procedure.                
    1612.       Jurisdiction of District Court.                       
    1613.       Relations between courts of United States and courts
                 of Virgin Islands; review by United States Court of
                 Appeals for Third Circuit; reports to Congress;
                 rules.                                               
    1613a.      Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
                 review by United States Court of Appeals for Third
                 Circuit; rules; appeals to appellate court.          
    1614.       Judges of District Court.                             
    1615.       Judicial divisions.                                   
    1616.       Trial by jury.                                        
    1617.       United States attorney; appointment; duties.          

                    SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS                
    1631.       Establishment and maintenance; scope.                 
    1632.       Repealed.                                             

                    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS                
    1641.       Method of payment of official salaries.               
    1642.       Use of certain proceeds for expenditure; income tax
                 obligations of inhabitants.                          
    1642a.      Availability of collected customs duties for
                 expenditures as Legislature may provide.             
    1643.       Import provisions with respect to trade-marks.        
    1644.       Import duties on articles entering United States or
                 possessions from Virgin Islands.                     
    1645.       Remittance of duties, taxes, and fees to be collected
                 in next fiscal year; authorization, prerequisites,
                 amount, etc.                                         

         CONSTITUTIONS FOR VIRGIN ISLANDS AND GUAM: ESTABLISHMENT;
                        CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION
      Pub. L. 94-584, Oct. 21, 1976, 90 Stat. 2899, as amended by Pub.
    L. 96-597, title V, Sec. 501, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3479,
    provided:
      "[Section 1. Authorization to organize governments] That the
    Congress, recognizing the basic democratic principle of government
    by the consent of the governed, authorizes the peoples of the
    Virgin Islands and of Guam, respectively, to organize governments
    pursuant to constitutions of their own adoption as provided in this
    Act.
      "Sec. 2. [Constitutional conventions and draft provisions] (a)
    The Legislatures of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, are
    authorized to call constitutional conventions to draft, within the
    existing territorial-Federal relationship, constitutions for the
    local self-government of the people of the Virgin Islands and Guam.
      "(b) Such constitutions shall - 
        "(1) recognize, and be consistent with, the sovereignty of the
      United States over the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, and
      the supremacy of the provisions of the Constitution, treaties,
      and laws of the United States applicable to the Virgin Islands
      and Guam, respectively, including, but not limited to, those
      provisions of the Organic Act [section 1405 et seq. of this
      title] and Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands [this
      chapter] and the Organic Act of Guam [section 1421 et seq. of
      this title] which do not relate to local self-government.
        "(2) provide for a republican form of government, consisting of
      three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial;
        "(3) contain a bill of rights;
        "(4) deal with the subject matter of those provisions of the
      Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands of 1954, as amended,
      and the Organic Act of Guam, as amended, respectively, which
      relate to local self-government;
        "(5) with reference to Guam, provided that the voting franchise
      may be vested only in residents of Guam who are citizens of the
      United States;
        "(6) provide for a system of local courts consistent with the
      provisions of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, as
      amended; and
        "(7) provide for the establishment of a system of local courts
      the provisions of which shall become effective no sooner than
      upon the enactment of legislation regulating the relationship
      between the local courts of Guam with the Federal judicial
      system.
      "Sec. 3. [Selection and qualification of members] The members of
    such constitutional conventions shall be chosen as provided by the
    laws of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively (enacted after
    the date of enactment of this Act [Oct. 21, 1976]): Provided,
    however, That no person shall be eligible to be a member of the
    constitutional conventions, unless he is a citizen of the United
    States and qualified to vote in the Virgin Islands and Guam,
    respectively.
      "Sec. 4. [Submittal of proposed constitutions to governors and
    President] The conventions shall submit to the Governor of the
    Virgin Islands a proposed constitution for the Virgin Islands and
    to the Governor of Guam a proposed constitution for Guam which
    shall comply with the requirements set forth in section 2(b) above.
    Such constitutions shall be submitted to the President of the
    United States by the Governors of the Virgin Islands and Guam.
      "Sec. 5. [Transmittal to Congress and submittal to voters] Within
    sixty calendar days after the respective date on which he has
    received each constitution, the President shall transmit such
    constitution together with his comments to the Congress. The
    constitution, in each case, shall be deemed to have been approved
    by the Congress within sixty legislative days (not interrupted by
    an adjournment sine die of the Congress) after its submission by
    the President, unless prior to that date the Congress has approved
    the constitution, or modified or amended it, in whole or in part,
    by joint resolution. As so approved or modified, the constitutions
    shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the Virgin Islands
    and Guam, respectively, for acceptance or rejection through
    islandwide referendums to be conducted as provided under the laws
    of the Virgin Islands and Guam, respectively, (enacted after the
    date of enactment of this Act) [Oct. 21, 1976]. Upon approval by
    not less than a majority of the votes (counting only the
    affirmative or negative votes) participating in such referendums,
    the constitutions shall become effective in accordance with their
    terms."

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                    02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1541                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1541. Organization and status

-STATUTE-
    (a) Composition and territorial designation
      The provisions of this chapter and the name "Virgin Islands" as
    used in this chapter, shall apply to and include the territorial
    domain, islands, cays, and waters acquired by the United States
    through cession of the Danish West Indian Islands by the convention
    between the United States of America and His Majesty the King of
    Denmark entered into August 4, 1916, and ratified by the Senate on
    September 7, 1916 (39 Stat. 1706). The Virgin Islands as above
    described are declared an unincorporated territory of the United
    States of America.
    (b) Powers and legal status of government; capital and seat of
      government
      The government of the Virgin Islands shall have the powers set
    forth in this chapter and shall have the right to sue by such name
    and in cases arising out of contract, to be sued: Provided, That no
    tort action shall be brought against the government of the Virgin
    Islands or against any officer or employee thereof in his official
    capacity without the consent of the legislature constituted by
    subchapter III of this chapter.
      The capital and seat of government of the Virgin Islands shall be
    located at the city of Charlotte Amalie, in the island of Saint
    Thomas.
    (c) Administrative supervision by Secretary of the Interior
      The relations between such government and the Federal Government
    in all matters not the program responsibility of another Federal
    department or agency shall be under the general administrative
    supervision of the Secretary of the Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 2, 68 Stat. 497; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec.
    13, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 842.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the
    original "this Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat.
    497, as amended, known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin
    Islands, which enacted this chapter, amended sections 104 and 111
    of Title 21, Food and Drugs, and section 3350 of former Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code (see section 7652(b)(3) of Title 26), and
    enacted provisions set out as notes under this section. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note below and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 90-496 added subsec. (c).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section 34 of act July 22, 1954, provided: "This Act [see Short
    Title note below] shall take effect upon its approval [July 22,
    1954], but until its provisions shall severally become operative as
    herein provided, the corresponding legislative, executive, and
    judicial functions of the existing government shall continue to be
    exercised as now provided by law or ordinance, and the incumbents
    of all offices under the government of the Virgin Islands shall
    continue in office until their successors are appointed and have
    qualified unless sooner removed by competent authority. The
    enactment of this Act shall not affect the term of office of the
    judge of the District Court of the Virgin Islands in office on the
    date of its enactment [July 22, 1954]."

                       SHORT TITLE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                   
      Section 17 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that: "This Act [enacting
    section 336 of Title 10, Armed Forces, amending this section and
    sections 1561, 1572, 1573, 1574, 1575, 1591, 1593, 1595, 1597,
    1599, and 1641 of this title, repealing sections 1594, 1596, and
    1632 of this title, and enacting provisions set out as a note under
    section 1591 of this title] may be cited as the 'Virgin Islands
    Elective Governor Act'."

                       SHORT TITLE OF 1959 AMENDMENT                   
      Pub. L. 86-289, Sec. 1, Sept. 16, 1959, 73 Stat. 568, provided:
    "That this Act [amending sections 1573, 1597, and 1617 of this
    title] may be cited as the 'Virgin Islands Organic Act Amendments
    of 1959'."

                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Section 1 of act July 22, 1954, provided that: "This Act
    [enacting this chapter, amending sections 104 and 111 of Title 21,
    Food and Drugs, and sections 3350 of former Title 26, Internal
    Revenue Code (see section 7652(b)(3) of Title 26), and enacting
    provisions set out as notes under this section] may be cited as the
    'Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands'."

                               SEPARABILITY                           
      Section 36 of act July 22, 1954, provided: "If any clause,
    sentence, paragraph, or part of this Act [see Short Title note
    above], or the application thereof to any person, or circumstances,
    is held invalid, the application thereof to other persons, or
    circumstances, and the remainder of the Act, shall not be affected
    thereby."

     CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF PROPOSED CONSTITUTION FOR UNITED STATES
                              VIRGIN ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 97-21, July 9, 1981, 95 Stat. 105, set out the text of
    the Constitution for the United States Virgin Islands and provided
    that the Constitution is approved for submission to the people of
    the Virgin Islands in accordance with the provisions of Public Law
    94-584, set out as a note preceding this section.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of the Virgin
    Islands, see section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1542                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1542. Voting franchise; discrimination prohibited

-STATUTE-
      (a) The franchise shall be vested in residents of the Virgin
    Islands who are citizens of the United States, twenty-one years of
    age or over. Additional qualifications may be prescribed by the
    legislature: Provided, however, That no property, language, or
    income qualification shall ever be imposed upon or required of any
    voter, nor shall any discrimination in qualification be made or
    based upon difference in race, color, sex, or religious belief.
      (b) The legislature shall have authority to enact legislation
    establishing the voting age for residents of the Virgin Islands at
    an age not lower than eighteen years of age, if a majority of the
    qualified voters in the Virgin Islands approve in a referendum
    election held for that purpose.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 4, 68 Stat. 498; Pub. L. 91-460, Oct.
    16, 1970, 84 Stat. 978.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1970 - Pub. L. 91-460 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a) and added subsec. (b).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1543                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1543. United States citizenship requirement for government
      officials

-STATUTE-
      All members of the Legislature of the Virgin Islands, the
    Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, all judges and all officials of
    the government of the Virgin Islands who report directly to the
    Governor shall be citizens of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 29, 68 Stat. 509; Pub. L. 98-213,
    Sec. 5(a), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1460.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1983 - Pub. L. 98-213 amended section generally, substituting
    provisions requiring United States citizenship for all members of
    the Legislature of the Virgin Islands, the Governor, Lieutenant
    Governor and all officials who report directly to the Governor for
    provisions requiring such citizenship for all officers of the
    Virgin Islands, and struck out provisions requiring written oaths
    and prescribing the oath.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1544                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1544. Reports by Governor; jurisdiction of Secretary of the
      Interior; exceptions

-STATUTE-
      All reports required by law to be made by the Governor to any
    official of the United States shall hereafter be made to the
    Secretary of the Interior, and the President is authorized to place
    all matters pertaining to the government of the Virgin Islands
    under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, except
    matters relating to the judicial branch of said government which on
    July 22, 1954 are under the supervision of the Director of the
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts, and the matters
    relating to the United States Attorney and the United States
    Marshal which on July 22, 1954 are under the supervision of the
    Attorney General.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 30, 68 Stat. 509.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1545                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1545. Lease and sale of public property; conveyance of title
      in certain lands to the government of Virgin Islands

-STATUTE-
      (a) The Secretary of the Interior shall be authorized to lease or
    to sell upon such terms as he may deem advantageous to the
    Government of the United States any property of the United States
    under his administrative supervision in the Virgin Islands not
    needed for public purposes.
      (b)(1) All right, title, and interest of the United States in the
    property placed under the control of the government of the Virgin
    Islands by section 1405c(a) of this title, not reserved to the
    United States by the Secretary of the Interior within one hundred
    and twenty days after October 5, 1974, is hereby conveyed to such
    government. The conveyance effected by the preceding sentence shall
    not apply to that land and other property which on October 5, 1974,
    is administered by the Secretary of the Interior as part of the
    National Park System and such lands and other property shall be
    retained by the United States.
      (2) Subject to valid existing rights, title to all property in
    the Virgin Islands which may have been acquired by the United
    States from Denmark under the Convention entered into August 16,
    1916, not reserved or retained by the United States in accordance
    with the provisions of Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210) is hereby
    transferred to the Virgin Islands government.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 31, 68 Stat. 510; Pub. L. 93-435,
    Sec. 3, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1211; Pub. L. 96-205, title IV, Sec.
    401(a), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 88.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210), referred to in subsec. (b)(2),
    is Pub. L. 93-435, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1210, as amended, which
    enacted sections 1705 to 1708 of this title, amended this section,
    and repealed sections 1701 to 1703 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 96-205 designated existing provisions
    as par. (1) and added par. (2).
      1974 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 93-435 substituted provisions
    conveying to the government of Virgin Islands title in lands now
    under its control with power to the Secretary of the Interior to
    reserve rights to the United States within 120 days after Oct. 5,
    1974, with the exception of land and property being administered by
    the Secretary of the Interior as part of the National Park System,
    for provisions that the government of Virgin Islands shall continue
    to have control over all public property under its control on July
    22, 1954.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of the Virgin
    Islands, see section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1546                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1546. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      There are authorized to be appropriated annually by the Congress
    of the United States such sums as may be necessary and appropriate
    to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 35, 68 Stat. 510.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - BILL OF RIGHTS                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - BILL OF RIGHTS

-HEAD-
                      SUBCHAPTER II - BILL OF RIGHTS                  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1561                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - BILL OF RIGHTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1561. Rights and prohibitions

-STATUTE-
      No law shall be enacted in the Virgin Islands which shall deprive
    any person of life, liberty, or property without due process of law
    or deny to any person therein equal protection of the laws.
      In all criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to
    be represented by counsel for his defense, to be informed of the
    nature and cause of the accusation, to have a copy thereof, to have
    a speedy, and public trial, to be confronted with the witnesses
    against him, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses
    in his favor.
      No person shall be held to answer for a criminal offense without
    due process of law, and no person for the same offense shall be
    twice put in jeopardy of punishment, nor shall be compelled in any
    criminal cause to give evidence against himself; nor shall any
    person sit as judge or magistrate in any case in which he has been
    engaged as attorney or prosecutor.
      All persons shall be bailable by sufficient sureties in the case
    of criminal offenses, except for first-degree murder or any capital
    offense when the proof is evident or the presumption great.
      Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive fines
    imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishment inflicted.
      No law impairing the obligation of contracts shall be enacted.
      No person shall be imprisoned or shall suffer forced labor for
    debt.
      All persons shall have the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus
    and the same shall not be suspended except as herein expressly
    provided.
      No ex post facto law or bill of attainder shall be enacted.
      Private property shall not be taken for public use except upon
    payment of just compensation ascertained in the manner provided by
    law.
      The right to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures
    shall not be violated.
      No warrant for arrest or search shall issue, but upon probable
    cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly
    describing the place to be searched and the persons or things to be
    seized.
      Slavery shall not exist in the Virgin Islands.
      Involuntary servitude, except as a punishment for crime whereof
    the party shall have been duly convicted by a court of law, shall
    not exist in the Virgin Islands.
      No law shall be passed abridging the freedom of speech or of the
    press or the right of the people peaceably to assembly (!1) and
    petition the government for the redress of grievances.

      No law shall be made respecting an establishment of religion or
    prohibiting the free exercise thereof.
      No person who advocates, or who aids or belongs to any party,
    organization, or association which advocates, the overthrow by
    force or violence of the government of the Virgin Islands or of the
    United States shall be qualified to hold any office of trust or
    profit under the government of the Virgin Islands.
      No money shall be paid out of the Virgin Islands treasury except
    in accordance with an Act of Congress or money bill of the
    legislature and on warrant drawn by the proper officer.
      The contracting of polygamous or plural marriages is prohibited.
      The employment of children under the age of sixteen years in any
    occupation injurious to health or morals or hazardous to life or
    limb is prohibited.
      Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
    power of the legislature herein provided to enact laws for the
    protection of life, the public health, or the public safety.
      No political or religious test other than an oath to support the
    Constitution and the laws of the United States applicable to the
    Virgin Islands, and the laws of the Virgin Islands, shall be
    required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the
    Government of the Virgin Islands.
      The following provisions of and amendments to the Constitution of
    the United States are hereby extended to the Virgin Islands to the
    extent that they have not been previously extended to that
    territory and shall have the same force and effect there as in the
    United States or in any State of the United States: article I,
    section 9, clauses 2 and 3; article IV, section 1 and section 2,
    clause 1; article VI, clause 3; the first to ninth amendments
    inclusive; the thirteenth amendment; the second sentence of section
    1 of the fourteenth amendment; and the fifteenth and nineteenth
    amendments: Provided, however, That all offenses against the laws
    of the United States and the laws of the Virgin Islands which are
    prosecuted in the district court pursuant to sections (!2) 1612(a)
    and (c) of this title may be had by indictment by grand jury or by
    information, and that all offenses against the laws of the Virgin
    Islands which are prosecuted in the district court pursuant to
    section 1612(b) of this title or in the courts established by local
    law shall continue to be prosecuted by information, except such as
    may be required by local law to be prosecuted by indictment by
    grand jury.

      All laws enacted by Congress with respect to the Virgin Islands
    and all laws enacted by the territorial legislature of the Virgin
    Islands which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
    subsection (!2) are repealed to the extent of such inconsistency.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 3, 68 Stat. 497; Pub. L. 85-851, Sec.
    1, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1094; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 11, Aug. 23,
    1968, 82 Stat. 841; Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 5(d), Dec. 8, 1983, 97
    Stat. 1460; Pub. L. 98-454, title VII, Sec. 701, Oct. 5, 1984, 98
    Stat. 1737.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, which is
    classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1541 of this title and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 substituted provisions to the effect that
    offenses prosecuted under section 1612(a) and (c) of this title
    shall be prosecuted by indictment or information while those
    prosecuted under section 1612(b) of this title shall be prosecuted
    by information only, for provisions which provided that all
    prosecutions would be by information except where provided
    otherwise by local laws in the proviso in penultimate par.
      1983 - Pub. L. 98-213 inserted "article VI, clause 3;" in
    penultimate par.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-496 inserted provisions extending to the Virgin
    Islands the enumerated provisions of and amendments to the
    Constitution of the United States, and provisions repealing, to the
    extent of any inconsistency, all laws enacted by Congress with
    respect to the Virgin Islands and all laws enacted by the
    territorial legislature of the Virgin Islands which are
    inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
      1958 - Pub. L. 85-851 prohibited political or religious test but
    required loyalty oath as qualification to any office or public
    trust.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 11 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-496,
    which was approved Aug. 23, 1968.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "assemble".

    (!2) So in original. Probably should be "section".


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
                    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH                

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1571                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1571. Legislature

-STATUTE-
    (a) Designation and unicameral character
      The legislative power and authority of the Virgin Islands shall
    be vested in a legislature, consisting of one house, to be
    designated the "Legislature of the Virgin Islands", herein referred
    to as the legislature.
    (b) Composition; legislative districts; method of elections
      The legislature shall be composed of members to be known as
    senators. The number of such senators shall be determined by the
    laws of the Virgin Islands. The apportionment of the legislature
    shall be as provided by the laws of the Virgin Islands: Provided,
    That such apportionment shall not deny to any person in the Virgin
    Islands the equal protection of the law: And provided further, That
    every voter in any district election or at large election shall be
    permitted to vote for the whole number of persons to be elected in
    that district election or at large election as the case may be.
    Until the legislature shall provide otherwise, four members shall
    be elected at large, five shall be elected from the District of
    Saint Thomas, five from the District of Saint Croix, and one from
    the District of Saint John, as those Districts were constituted on
    July 22, 1954,

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 5, 68 Stat. 498; Pub. L. 89-548, Sec.
    1, Aug. 30, 1966, 80 Stat. 371; Pub. L. 106-364, Sec. 1, Oct. 27,
    2000, 114 Stat. 1408.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2000 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 106-364 struck out "fifteen" after
    "composed of" in first sentence and inserted "The number of such
    senators shall be determined by the laws of the Virgin Islands."
    after first sentence.
      1966 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 89-548 raised from eleven to fifteen
    the total number of senators in the legislature, substituted
    provision that the legislature be apportioned according to the laws
    of the Virgin Islands for provisions spelling out the division of
    the Virgin Islands into districts, the composition of each such
    district, and the district and at-large representation breakdown of
    the senators in the legislature, struck out provision for the
    casting of a ballot for two candidates by each elector in at-large
    elections and the drawing of lots to determine placement on the
    ballot in at-large elections, prohibited apportionment in a way
    which would deny equal protection of the law, and provided for
    temporary apportionment until the legislature provided otherwise
    from the districts as constituted on July 22, 1954.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1966 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 89-548 provided that: "This Act [amending
    this section] shall be effective with respect to the legislature to
    be elected at the regular general election in November 1966, and
    thereafter."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1572                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1572. Legislators

-STATUTE-
    (a) Terms of office
      The term of office of each member of the legislature shall be two
    years. The term of office of each member shall commence on the
    second Monday in January following his election: Provided, however,
    That the term of office of each member elected in November 1958
    shall commence on the second Monday in April 1959 and shall
    continue until the second Monday in April 1961, and the term of
    office of each member elected in November 1960 shall commence on
    the second Monday in April 1961 and continue until the second
    Monday in January 1963.
    (b) Qualifications of members
      No person shall be eligible to be a member of the legislature who
    is not a citizen of the United States, who has not attained the age
    of twenty-one years, who is not a qualified voter in the Virgin
    Islands, who has not been a bona fide resident of the Virgin
    Islands for at least three years next preceding the date of his
    election, or who has been convicted of a felony or of a crime
    involving moral turpitude and has not received a pardon restoring
    his civil rights. Federal employees and persons employed in the
    legislative, executive or judicial branches of the government of
    the Virgin Islands shall not be eligible for membership in the
    legislature.
    (c) Appointment of electoral officers; popular election of members
      of boards of election
      All officers and employees charged with the duty of directing the
    administration of the electoral system of the Virgin Islands and
    its representative districts shall be appointed in such manner as
    the legislature may by law direct: Provided, however, That members
    of boards of elections, which entities of government have been duly
    organized and established by the government of the Virgin Islands,
    shall be popularly elected.
    (d) Immunity of members
      No member of the legislature shall be held to answer before any
    tribunal other than the legislature for any speech or debate in the
    legislature and the members shall in all cases, except treason,
    felony, or breach of the peace, be privileged from arrest during
    their attendance at the sessions of the legislature and in going to
    and returning from the same.
    (e) Compensation and allowances
      Each member of the legislature shall be paid such compensation
    and shall receive such additional allowances or benefits as may be
    fixed under the laws of the Virgin Islands. Such compensation,
    allowances, or benefits, together with all other legislative
    expenses, shall be appropriated by, and paid out of funds of, the
    government of the Virgin Islands.
    (f) Limitations on holding other office
      No member of the legislature shall hold or be appointed to any
    office which has been created by the legislature, or the salary or
    emoluments of which have been increased, while he was a member,
    during the term for which he was elected, or during one year after
    the expiration of such term.
    (g) General powers; parliamentary rules
      The legislature shall be the sole judge of the elections and
    qualifications of its members, shall have and exercise all the
    authority and attributes, inherent in legislative assemblies, and
    shall have the power to institute and conduct investigations, issue
    subpena to witnesses and other parties concerned, and administer
    oaths. The rules of the Legislative Assembly of the Virgin Islands
    existing on July 22, 1954 shall continue in force and effect for
    sessions of the legislature, except as inconsistent with this
    chapter, until altered, amended, or repealed by the legislature.
    (h) Vacancies
      The Legislature of the Virgin Islands shall by law provide the
    procedure for filling any vacancy in the office of member of the
    legislature.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 6, 68 Stat. 499; Pub. L. 86-289, Sec.
    2(a), (b), Sept. 16, 1959, 73 Stat. 568; Pub. L. 89-98, July 30,
    1965, 79 Stat. 423; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 8(b), Aug. 23, 1968, 82
    Stat. 839; Pub. L. 92-389, Aug. 17, 1972, 86 Stat. 563; Pub. L. 93-
    130, Sec. 1, Oct. 19, 1973, 87 Stat. 460.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in subsec. (g), was in the original
    "this Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as
    amended, known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands,
    which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1541 of this title and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1973 - Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 93-130 substituted provision
    authorizing the Legislature of Virgin Islands to provide by law the
    procedure for filling vacancies in the membership of the
    Legislature, for provisions authorizing the Governor of the Virgin
    Islands to fill any such vacancy by appointment of resident of the
    district from which the member whose office became vacant was
    elected if the vacancy is that of a Senator and of resident of any
    part of Virgin Islands if the vacancy is that of a Senator at
    large, and that such appointee shall serve for the remainder of the
    unexpired term.
      1972 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 92-389 reduced the age qualification
    for membership of legislature from twenty-five years to twenty-one
    years.
      1968 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 90-496 inserted proviso requiring
    members of boards of elections, duly organized by the government,
    to be popularly elected.
      1965 - Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 89-98 substituted provisions
    empowering the government of the Virgin Islands to fix and pay
    legislative salaries and expenses for provisions which specifically
    fixed these salaries and expenses and which required the United
    States Government to pay them.
      1959 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86-289, Sec. 2(a), substituted, in
    second sentence, "January" for "April", before "following his
    election", and substituted, in proviso, "1958" for "1954", "April
    1959" for "January 1955", and "1961, and the term of office of each
    member elected in November 1960 shall commence on the second Monday
    in April 1961 and continue until the second Monday in January 1963"
    for "1957".
      Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 86-289, Sec. 2(b), changed the date of
    payment of salaries, increased the per diem from $10 to $20, and
    provided that the per diem paid to members of the legislature for
    official travel outside the Virgin Islands should not be at rates
    in excess of those paid Federal Government employees.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1973 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 93-130 provided that: "The amendment made by
    the first section of this Act [amending this section] shall apply
    with respect to vacancies occurring on or after the date of
    enactment of this Act [Oct. 19, 1973]."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1573                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1573. Time, frequency, and duration of regular sessions;
      special sessions; place of holding

-STATUTE-
      (a) Regular sessions of the legislature shall be held annually,
    commencing on the second Monday in January (unless the legislature
    shall by law fix a different date), and shall continue for such
    term as the legislature may provide. The Governor may call special
    sessions of the legislature at any time when in his opinion the
    public interest may require it. No legislation shall be considered
    at any special session other than that specified in the call
    therefor or in any special message by the Governor to the
    legislature while in such session. All sessions of the legislature
    shall be open to the public.
      (b) Sessions of the legislature shall be held in the capital of
    the Virgin Islands at Charlotte Amalie, Saint Thomas.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 7, 68 Stat. 500; Pub. L. 86-289, Sec.
    2(c), Sept. 16, 1959, 73 Stat. 569; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 1, Aug.
    23, 1968, 82 Stat. 837.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90-496 substituted provisions that
    regular sessions of the legislature shall continue for such term as
    the legislature may provide for provisions that regular sessions
    shall continue for not more than sixty consecutive calendar days in
    any calendar year, with the proviso that the regular annual session
    for 1959, 1960, and 1961 shall commence on the second Monday in
    April and shall continue for not more than sixty consecutive
    calendar days, struck out provisions that any special session
    called by the Governor shall continue for not more than fifteen
    calendar days, with the aggregate of any such special sessions
    during any calendar year not to exceed thirty calendar days, and
    inserted provision opening to the public all sessions of the
    legislature.
      1959 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86-289 substituted "January (unless
    the legislature shall by law fix a different date)" for "April" and
    "regular annual session for each of the years 1959, 1960, and 1961,
    respectively, shall commence on the second Monday in April" for
    "annual session for 1955 shall commence on the second Monday in
    January 1955".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 1 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-496,
    which was approved Aug. 23, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574. Legislative powers and activities

-STATUTE-
    (a) Scope of authority; limitation on enactments and taxation
      The legislative authority and power of the Virgin Islands shall
    extend to all rightful subjects of legislation not inconsistent
    with this chapter or the laws of the United States made applicable
    to the Virgin Islands, but no law shall be enacted which would
    impair rights existing or arising by virtue of any treaty or
    international agreement entered into by the United States, nor
    shall the lands or other property of nonresidents be taxed at a
    higher rate than the lands or other property of residents.
    (b) Government bonds; maximum amount; sale, interest, etc.
      (i) The legislature of the government of the Virgin Islands may
    cause to be issued on behalf of said government bonds or other
    obligations for a public improvement or public undertaking
    authorized by an act of the legislature. Such bonds or obligations
    shall be payable solely from the revenues directly derived from and
    attributable to such public improvement, public undertaking, or
    other project. Bonds issued pursuant to paragraph (i) may bear such
    date or dates, may be in such denominations, may mature in such
    amounts and at such time or times, not exceeding thirty years from
    the date thereof, may be payable at such place or places, may carry
    such registration privileges as to either principal and interest,
    or principal only, and may be executed by such officers and in such
    manner as shall be prescribed by the government of the Virgin
    Islands. Said bonds may be redeemable (either with or without
    premium) or nonredeemable. In case any of the officers whose
    signatures appear on the bonds or coupons shall cease to be such
    officers before delivery of such bonds, such signature, whether
    manual or facsimile shall, nevertheless, be valid and sufficient
    for all purposes, the same as if such officers had remained in
    office until such delivery. The bonds so issued shall bear interest
    at a rate not to exceed that specified by the legislature, payable
    semiannually. All such bonds issued by the government of the Virgin
    Islands or by its authority shall be exempt as to principal and
    interest from taxation by the Government of the United States, or
    by the government of the Virgin Islands, or by any State,
    Territory, or possession or by any political subdivision of any
    State, Territory or possession, or by the District of Columbia.
    Such bonds shall under no circumstances constitute a general
    obligation of the Virgin Islands or of the United States.
      (ii)(A) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph (ii), the
    legislature of the government of the Virgin Islands may cause to be
    issued such negotiable general obligation bonds or other evidence
    of indebtedness, including but not limited to notes in anticipation
    of the collection of taxes or revenues, as it may deem necessary
    and advisable for any public purpose authorized by the legislature:
    Provided, That no such indebtedness of the Virgin Islands shall be
    incurred in excess of 10 per centum of the aggregate assessed
    valuation of the taxable real property in the Virgin Islands. Bonds
    issued pursuant to this paragraph (ii) shall bear such date or
    dates, may be in such denominations, may mature in such amounts and
    at such time or times, not exceeding thirty years from the date
    thereof, may be payable at such place or places, may be sold at
    either public or private sale, may be redeemable (either with or
    without premium) or nonredeemable, may carry such registration
    privileges as to either principal and interest, or principal only,
    and may be executed by such officers and in such manner, as shall
    be prescribed by the legislature of the government of the Virgin
    Islands. In case any of the officers whose signatures appear on the
    bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officers before delivery of
    such bonds, such signature, whether manual or facsimile, shall
    nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as
    if such officers had remained in office until such delivery. The
    bonds so issued shall bear interest at a rate not to exceed that
    specified by the legislature. All bonds issued by the government of
    the Virgin Islands, including specifically interest thereon, shall
    be exempt from taxation by the Government of the United States, or
    by the government of the Virgin Islands or any political
    subdivision thereof, or by any State, territory, or possession or
    by any political subdivision of any State, territory, or
    possession, or by the District of Columbia.
      (B) Bonds or other obligations issued pursuant to this paragraph
    (ii) shall not be a debt of the United States, nor shall the United
    States be liable thereon.
      (iii)(A) The legislature of the government of the Virgin Islands
    may cause to be issued after September 30, 1984, industrial
    development bonds (within the meaning of section 103(b)(2) (!1) of
    title 26).

      (B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), any obligation issued
    under subparagraph (A) and the income from such obligation shall be
    exempt from all State and local taxation in effect on or after
    October 1, 1984.
      (C) Any obligation issued under subparagraph (A) shall not be
    exempt from State or local gift, estate, inheritance, legacy,
    succession, or other wealth transfer taxes.
      (D) For purposes of this paragraph - 
        (I) The term "State" includes the District of Columbia.
        (II) The taxes imposed by counties, municipalities, or any
      territory, dependency, or possession of the United States shall
      be treated as local taxes.

      (E) For exclusion of interest for purposes of Federal income
    taxation, see section 103 of title 26.
    (c) Applicability of laws and ordinances; amendment or repeal
      The laws of the United States applicable to the Virgin Islands on
    July 22, 1954, including laws made applicable to the Virgin Islands
    by or pursuant to the provisions of the Act of June 22, 1936 (49
    Stat. 1807), and all local laws and ordinances in force in the
    Virgin Islands, or any part thereof, on July 22, 1954 shall, to the
    extent they are not inconsistent with this chapter, continue in
    force and effect until otherwise provided by the Congress:
    Provided, That the legislature shall have power, when within its
    jurisdiction and not inconsistent with the other provisions of this
    chapter, to amend, alter, modify, or repeal any local law or
    ordinance, public or private, civil or criminal, continued in force
    and effect by this chapter, except as herein otherwise provided,
    and to enact new laws not inconsistent with any law of the United
    States applicable to the Virgin Islands, subject to the power of
    Congress to annul any such Act of the legislature.
    (d), (e) Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 305, Oct. 19,
      1982, 96 Stat. 1709
    (f) Customs duty; duty-free importation; effect on other customs
      laws
      (1) The Legislature of the Virgin Islands may impose on the
    importation of any article into the Virgin Islands for consumption
    therein a customs duty. The rate of any customs duty imposed on any
    article under this subsection may not exceed - 
        (A) if an ad valorem rate, 6 per centum ad valorem; or
        (B) if a specific rate or a combination ad valorem and specific
      rate, the equivalent or 6 per centum ad valorem.

      (2) Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the Legislature of
    the Virgin Islands from permitting the duty-free importation of any
    article.
      (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as empowering
    the Legislature of the Virgin Islands to repeal or amend any
    provision in law in effect on the day before October 15, 1977,
    which pertains to the customs valuation or customs classification
    of articles imported into the Virgin Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 8, 68 Stat. 500; Pub. L. 85-851,
    Secs. 2, 3, 10, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1094, 1095; Pub. L. 88-180,
    Nov. 19, 1963, 77 Stat. 335; Pub. L. 89-643, Oct. 13, 1966, 80
    Stat. 890; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 15, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 842;
    Pub. L. 95-134, title III, Sec. 301(c), Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat.
    1163; Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 305, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat.
    1709; Pub. L. 98-454, title II, Sec. 201, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat.
    1732; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095; Pub.
    L. 106-84, Sec. 1(a), (b)(1), (2), Oct. 28, 1999, 113 Stat. 1295.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 103, referred to in subsec. (b)(iii)(A), which related to
    interest on certain governmental obligations was amended generally
    by Pub. L. 99-514, title XIII, Sec. 1301(a), Oct. 22, 1986, 100
    Stat. 2602, and as so amended relates to interest on State and
    local bonds. Section 103(b)(2), which prior to the general
    amendment defined industrial development bond, relates to the
    applicability of the interest exclusion to arbitrage bonds.
      Act of June 22, 1936 (49 Stat. 1807), referred to in subsec. (c),
    is act June 22, 1936, ch. 699, 49 Stat. 1807, as amended, known as
    the Organic Act of the Virgin Islands of the United States, which
    is classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 1405 et seq.) of
    chapter 7 of this title. For complete classification of this Act to
    the Code, see section 1406m of this title and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1999 - Subsec. (b)(ii)(A). Pub. L. 106-84, Sec. 1(a), inserted ",
    including but not limited to notes in anticipation of the
    collection of taxes or revenues," after "other evidence of
    indebtedness", substituted "for any public purpose authorized by
    the legislature: Provided, That no such" for "to construct,
    improve, extend, better, repair, reconstruct, acquire, and equip
    hospitals, schools, libraries, gymnasia, athletic fields, sewers,
    sewage-disposal plants, and water systems: Provided, That no
    public", and struck out "and payable semiannually. All such bonds
    shall be sold for not less than the principal amount thereof plus
    accrued interest" after "specified by the legislature".
      Subsec. (b)(ii)(B), (C). Pub. L. 106-84, Sec. 1(b)(1), (2),
    redesignated subpar. (C) as (B) and struck out former subpar. (B)
    which read as follows: "The proceeds of the bond issues or other
    obligations herein authorized shall be expended only for the public
    improvements set forth in the preceding subparagraph, or for the
    reduction of the debt created by such bond issue or obligation,
    unless otherwise authorized by the Congress."
      1986 - Subsec. (b)(iii)(E). Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986" for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954", which
    for purposes of codification was translated as "title 26" thus
    requiring no change in text.
      1984 - Subsec. (b)(i), (iii). Pub. L. 98-454 struck out "shall be
    sold at public sale and" before "may be redeemable" in fourth
    sentence of par. (i) and added par. (iii).
      1982 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 97-357 struck out subsec. (d) which
    authorized the President of the United States to appoint a
    commission of seven persons, at least three of whom were residents
    of the Virgin Islands, to survey the field of Federal statutes and
    to make recommendations to Congress within twelve months after July
    22, 1954, as to which statutes of the United States not applicable
    to the Virgin Islands on that date should be made applicable to the
    Virgin Islands and which statutes of the United States applicable
    to the Virgin Islands on that date should be declared inapplicable,
    and provided compensation of this commission.
      Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 97-357 struck out subsec. (e) which related
    to arrangements by the Secretary of the Interior for the
    preparation of a code of laws of the Virgin Islands.
      1977 - Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95-134 added subsec. (f).
      1968 - Subsec. (b)(i). Pub. L. 90-496 struck out the provisions
    that the total amount of revenue bonds which may be issued and
    outstanding for all improvements and undertakings at any one time
    shall not be in excess of $30,000,000, exclusive of all bonds and
    undertakings held by the United States as a result of a sale of
    real or personal property to the government of the Virgin Islands,
    and with not more than $10,000,000 of such bonds or obligations to
    be outstanding at any one time for public improvements or public
    undertakings other than water or power projects, and substituted
    provisions that the bonds so issued shall bear interest at a rate
    not to exceed that specified by the legislature, payable
    semiannually, for provisions that the bonds so issued shall bear
    interest at a rate not to exceed 5% per annum, payable
    semiannually, and that all such bonds shall be sold for not less
    than the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest.
      1966 - Subsec. (b)(i). Pub. L. 89-643 increased the borrowing
    authority of the Virgin Islands by striking out limiting provisions
    so as to require only that the object of a bond issue be a public
    improvement or undertaking authorized by the legislature as opposed
    to previous requirement of a legislative authorization for specific
    improvements and legislative findings of need, substituted
    provisions authorizing the issuance of bonds that are nonredeemable
    or redeemable (either with or without premium) for provisions
    requiring that bonds be redeemable after five years without
    premium, raised the limitation on total amount of outstanding bonds
    from a flat limitation of $10,000,000 to $30,000,000 exclusive of
    all bonds or obligations which are held by the Government of the
    United States as a result of a sale of real or personal property to
    the government of the Virgin Islands, and inserted requirement that
    not to exceed $10,000,000 of the bonds or obligations may be
    outstanding at any one time for public improvement or public
    undertakings other than water or power projects.
      1963 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 88-180 redesignated existing
    provisions as par. (i), struck out "The legislature shall have no
    power to incur any indebtedness which may be a general obligation
    of said government", and added par. (ii).
      1958 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 85-851, Sec. 2, substituted "rightful
    subjects of legislation" for "subjects of local application".
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 85-851, Sec. 10, authorized issuance of
    bonds for establishment, construction, operation, maintenance,
    reconstruction, improvement, or enlargement of other projects and
    payment of the bonds from revenues derived from the projects.
      Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 85-851, Sec. 3, struck out "and any
    supplements to it" after "Upon the enactment of the Virgin Islands
    Code it".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1999 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 106-84, Sec. 3, Oct. 28, 1999, 113 Stat. 1295, provided
    that:
      "(a) In General. - Except as provided by subsection (b), the
    amendments made by section 1 [amending this section and section
    1574a of this title] shall apply to those instruments of
    indebtedness issued by the Government of the Virgin Islands after
    the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 28, 1999].
      "(b) Effect of Failure To Reach Agreement. - If the agreement
    authorized in section 2(a) [set out as a note under section 1631 of
    this title] is not ratified by both parties on or before December
    31, 1999, the amendments made by section 1 - 
        "(A) shall not apply to instruments of indebtedness issued by
      the Government of the Virgin Islands on or after December 31,
      1999; and
        "(B) shall continue to apply to those instruments of
      indebtedness issued by the Government of the Virgin Islands after
      the date of the enactment of this Act and before December 31,
      1999."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 15 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-496,
    which was approved Aug. 23, 1968.

                               CONSTRUCTION                           
      Pub. L. 106-84, Sec. 4, Oct. 28, 1999, 113 Stat. 1296, provided
    that: "These amendments to the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin
    Islands [amending this section] are not intended to modify the
    internal revenue laws. Thus, the bonds authorized by this bill must
    comply with subsection (c) of section 149 of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 149(c)] (which requires the new bonds
    comply with the appropriate requirements of the Internal Revenue
    Code)."

    LEVYING AND COLLECTION OF EXCISE TAXES BY LEGISLATURE OF THE VIRGIN
                                  ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 96-205, title IV, Sec. 405, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 89,
    as amended by Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 302, Oct. 19, 1982,
    96 Stat. 1709, provided that: "Any excise taxes levied by the
    Legislature of the Virgin Islands may be levied and collected as
    the Legislature of the Virgin Islands may direct as soon as the
    articles, goods, merchandise, and commodities subject to said tax
    are brought into the Virgin Islands. The officials of the Customs
    and Postal Services of the United States are directed to assist the
    appropriate officials of the United States Virgin Islands in the
    collection of these taxes."

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574-1                                          02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574-1. Applicability of laws referred to in section 502(a)(1)
      of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
      Islands

-STATUTE-
      Effective on the date when section 502 of the Covenant to
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union With the United States of America, approved by
    joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976 (90 Stat. 263) goes
    into force those laws which are referred to in section 502(a)(1) of
    said Covenant, except for any laws administered by the Social
    Security Administration, except for medicaid which is now
    administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, and
    except the Micronesian Claims Act of 1971 (85 Stat. 96) shall be
    applicable to the territories of Guam and the Virgin Islands on the
    same terms and conditions as such laws are applied to the Northern
    Mariana Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-134, title IV, Sec. 403, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1163;
    Pub. L. 95-135, Sec. 1, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1166; Pub. L. 108-
    173, title IX, Sec. 900(e)(7), Dec. 8, 2003, 117 Stat. 2374.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States of America,
    referred to in text, is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241,
    set out as a note under section 1801 of this title. For Jan. 9,
    1978, as the date section 502 of the Covenant came into force, see
    Proc. No. 4534, Sec. 2, set out as a note under section 1801 of
    this title.
      The joint resolution approved on March 24, 1976, referred to in
    text, is Pub. L. 94-241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended,
    which is classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.)
    of chapter 17 of this title. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Micronesian Claims Act of 1971, referred to in text, is Pub.
    L. 92-39, July 1, 1971, 85 Stat. 92, as amended, which was
    classified generally to section 2018 et seq. of Title 50, Appendix,
    War and National Defense, and which was omitted from the Code as
    terminated Aug. 3, 1976.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is also classified to section 1421q-1 of this title.
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2003 - Pub. L. 108-173 substituted "Centers for Medicare &
    Medicaid Services" for "Health Care Financing Administration".
      1977 - Pub. L. 95-135 amended section generally. Prior to
    amendment, section read as follows: "Effective on October 15, 1977,
    those laws, except for any laws administered by the Social Security
    Administration and except for medicaid which is now administered by
    the Health Care Financing Administration, which are referred to in
    section 502(a)(1) (except for the reference to the Micronesian
    Claims Act of 1971 (85 Stat. 96)) of the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    With the United States of America, approved by joint resolution
    approved on March 24, 1976 (90 Stat. 263), and 502(a)(2) of said
    Covenant shall be applicable to the territories of Guam and the
    Virgin Islands on the same terms and conditions as such laws are
    applied to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1977 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 95-135 effective as of Oct. 15, 1977, see
    section 2 of Pub. L. 95-135, set out as a note under section 1421q-
    1 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574a. Revenue bonds or other obligations

-STATUTE-
    (a) Authorization for issuance; use of proceeds; legislative
      initiative and binding referendum vote
      In addition to the authority conferred by section 1574(b) of this
    title, the legislature of the government of the Virgin Islands is
    authorized to cause to be issued bonds or other obligations of such
    government in anticipation of revenues to be received under section
    7652(b)(3) of title 26. The proceeds of such bonds or other
    obligations may be used for any purpose authorized by an act of the
    legislature. The legislature of the government of the Virgin
    Islands may initiate, by majority vote of the members, a binding
    referendum vote to approve or disapprove the amount of any such
    bond or other obligation and/or any purpose for which such bond or
    other obligation is authorized.
    (b) Federal guarantee
      The legislature of the government of the Virgin Islands may
    provide, in connection with any issue of bonds or other obligations
    authorized to be issued under subsection (a) of this section the
    proceeds of which are to be used for public works or other capital
    projects, that a guarantee of such bonds or obligations by the
    United States should be applied for under section 1574b of this
    title.
    (c) Limitations on issuance
      Except to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this
    Act, the provisions of section 1574(b)(ii) of this title (other
    than the limitation contained in the proviso to the first sentence
    of subparagraph (A)) shall apply to bonds and other obligations
    authorized to be issued under subsection (a) of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-392, Sec. 1, Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1193; Pub. L. 105-
    83, title I, Sec. 124(c), Nov. 14, 1997, 111 Stat. 1567; Pub. L.
    106-84, Sec. 1(b)(3), Oct. 28, 1999, 113 Stat. 1295.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 94-392, Aug. 19,
    1976, 90 Stat. 1193, as amended, which enacted sections 1574a to
    1574d of this title, amended section 1397 of this title, and
    enacted a provision set out as a note below. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      In subsec. (a), "section 7652(b)(3) of title 26" substituted for
    "section 28(b) of such Act (26 U.S.C. 7652)", meaning section 28(b)
    of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands (68 Stat. 508),
    which was classified to section 3350(c) of former Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code, on authority of section 7852(b) of Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code, which provided that any reference in any
    other law to a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 shall
    be deemed a reference to the corresponding provision of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1999 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 106-84 struck out subsec. (d) which
    read as follows: "The legislature of the Government of the Virgin
    Islands may cause to be issued notes in anticipation of the
    collection of the taxes and revenues for the current fiscal year.
    Such notes shall mature and be paid within one year from the date
    they are issued. No extension of such notes shall be valid and no
    additional notes shall be issued under this section until all notes
    issued during a preceding year shall have been paid."
      1997 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 105-83 added subsec. (d).

                      AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS                  
      Section 6 of Pub. L. 94-392 provided that: "There are hereby
    authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
    carry out the provisions of this Act [enacting this section and
    sections 1574b to 1574d of this title and amending section 1397 of
    this title]."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574b. Federal guarantee for issuance of revenue bonds or
      other obligations

-STATUTE-
    (a) Application to Secretary of the Interior; contents
      When authorized under subsection (b) of section 1574a of this
    title, the government of the Virgin Islands may apply to the
    Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the
    "Secretary") for a guarantee of any issue of bonds or other
    obligations authorized to be issued under subsection (a) of section
    1574a of this title. Any such application shall contain such
    information as the Secretary may prescribe.
    (b) Terms and conditions of guarantee or commitment to guarantee;
      determination by Secretary of approval
      The Secretary is authorized, with the approval of the Secretary
    of the Treasury, to guarantee and to enter into commitments to
    guarantee, upon such terms and conditions as he may prescribe,
    payment of principal and interest on bonds and other obligations
    issued by the government of the Virgin Islands under subsection (a)
    of section 1574a of this title. No guarantee or commitment to
    guarantee shall be made unless the Secretary determines - 
        (1) that the proceeds of such issue will be used only for
      public works or other capital projects, except that $28,000,000
      of the guaranteed bonding authority will be used for water
      producing and power projects, including maintenance and overhaul
      of electrical generating and distribution mechanisms, and
      $12,000,000 of the guaranteed bonding authority will be used for
      repair and improvements of the water distribution and storage
      systems;
        (2) taking into account anticipated expenditures by the
      government of the Virgin Islands while the bonds or other
      obligations forming a part of such issue will be outstanding, all
      outstanding obligations of the government of the Virgin Islands
      which will mature while the bonds or other obligations forming a
      part of such issue will be outstanding, and such other factors as
      he deems pertinent, that the revenues expected to be received
      under section 7652(b)(3) of title 26 will be sufficient to pay
      the principal of, and interest on, the bonds or other obligations
      forming a part of such issue;
        (3) that credit is not otherwise available on reasonable terms
      and conditions and that there is reasonable assurance of
      repayment, and
        (4) that the maturity of any obligations to be guaranteed does
      not exceed thirty years or 90 per centum of the useful life of
      the physical assets to be financed by the obligation, whichever
      is less as determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Administrative costs; deposit of fees
      The Secretary shall charge and collect fees in amounts sufficient
    in his judgment to cover the costs of administering this section.
    Fees collected under this subsection shall be deposited in the
    revolving fund created under subsection (g) of this section.
    (d) Conclusiveness and incontestability; pledge of full faith and
      credit
      Any guarantee made by the Secretary shall be conclusive evidence
    of the eligibility of the obligation for such guarantee, and the
    validity of any guarantee so made shall be incontestable, except
    for fraud or material misrepresentation, in the hands of the holder
    of the guaranteed obligation. Such guarantee shall constitute a
    pledge of the full faith and credit of the United States for such
    obligation.
    (e) Interest on guaranteed obligations taxable
      The interest on any obligation guaranteed under this section
    shall be included in gross income for purposes of chapter 1 of the
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.].
    (f) Maximum amount guaranteed; time limitations on commitments to
      guarantee, obligation of guaranteed but unobligated funds, and
      repayment of unobligated proceeds of bonds or other obligations
      The aggregate principal amount of obligations which may be
    guaranteed under this Act shall not exceed $101,000,000. No
    commitment to guarantee may be issued by the Secretary, and no
    guaranteed but unobligated funds may be obligated by the government
    of the Virgin Islands after October 1, 1990. After October 1, 1990,
    any unobligated proceeds of bonds or other obligations issued by
    the government of the Virgin Islands pursuant to this section shall
    be repaid immediately by the government of the Virgin Islands to
    the lenders with the agreed upon interest. Should there be any
    delay in the government of the Virgin Islands' making such
    repayment, the Secretary shall deduct the requisite amounts from
    moneys under his control that would otherwise be paid to the
    government of the Virgin Islands under section 7652(b)(3) of title
    26.
    (g) Revolving fund; establishment; submission of budget to
      Congress; payments; transfers from fund to general fund of
      Treasury; issuance and sale of notes or other obligations for
      guarantees
      (1) There is hereby created within the Treasury a separate fund
    (hereinafter referred to as "the fund") which shall be available to
    the Secretary without fiscal year limitation as revolving fund for
    the purpose of this Act. A business-type budget for the fund shall
    be prepared, transmitted to the Congress, considered, and enacted
    in the manner prescribed by law (sections 9103 and 9104 of title
    31) for wholly owned Government corporations.
      (2) All expenses, including reimbursements to other government
    accounts, and payments pursuant to operations of the Secretary
    under this Act shall be paid from the fund. If at any time the
    Secretary determines that moneys in the fund exceed the present and
    any reasonably prospective future requirements of the fund, such
    excess may be transferred to the general fund of the Treasury.
      (3) If at any time the moneys available in the fund are
    insufficient to enable the Secretary to discharge his
    responsibilities under guarantees under this Act, he shall issue to
    the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations in such
    forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to
    such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Secretary of
    the Treasury. Redemption of such notes or obligations shall be made
    by the Secretary from appropriations which are hereby authorized
    for this purpose. Such notes or other obligations shall bear
    interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury,
    which shall not be less than a rate determined by taking into
    consideration the average market yield on outstanding marketable
    obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during
    the month preceding the issuance of the notes or other obligations.
    The Secretary of the Treasury shall purchase any notes or other
    obligations issued hereunder and for that purpose he is authorized
    to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of
    any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31 and the purposes
    for which securities may be issued under that chapter are extended
    to include any purchase of such notes or obligations. The Secretary
    of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other
    obligations acquired by him under this subsection. All redemptions,
    purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes
    or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions
    of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-392, Sec. 2, Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1193; Pub. L. 96-
    205, title IV, Sec. 407, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 89; Pub. L. 98-
    146, title I, Nov. 4, 1983, 97 Stat. 931, 932; Pub. L. 98-213,
    Sec. 4(b), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1460; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2,
    Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, referred to in
    subsec. (e), means chapter 1 (Sec. 1 et seq.) of Title 26, Internal
    Revenue Code.
      This Act, referred to in subsecs. (f) and (g), is Pub. L. 94-392,
    Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1193, as amended, which enacted sections
    1574a to 1574d of this title, amended section 1397 of this title,
    and enacted a provision set out as a note under section 1574a of
    this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      In subsecs. (b)(2) and (f), "section 7652(b)(3) of title 26"
    substituted for "section 28(b) of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands [68 Stat. 508]", which was classified to section
    3350(c) of former Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, on authority of
    section 7852(b) of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, which provided
    that any reference in any other law to a provision of the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1939 be deemed a reference to the corresponding
    provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
      In subsec. (g)(1) and (3), "sections 9103 and 9104 of title 31"
    substituted for "sections 102, 103, and 104 of the Government
    Corporation Control Act (31 U.S.C. 847-849)", and "chapter 31 of
    title 31" and "that chapter" were substituted for "the Second
    Liberty Bond Act" and "that Act", respectively, on authority of
    Pub. L. 97-258, Sec. 4(b), Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first
    section of which enacted Title 31, Money and Finance.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986" for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954".
      1983 - Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 4(b)(1), and Pub. L.
    98-146, Sec. 100(1), made nearly identical amendments relating to
    the use of the amounts of $28,000,000 and $12,000,000 of the
    guaranteed bonding authority. The text reflects the amendment by
    Pub. L. 98-213.
      Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 4(b)(2), and Pub. L. 98-146,
    Sec. 100(2), amended subsec. (f) identically, substituting
    "$101,000,000" for "$61,000,000" and "1990" for "1984" in two
    places.
      1980 - Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 96-205 substituted provisions
    relating to prohibitions on commitments to guarantee by the
    Secretary and obligation by the Virgin Islands government of
    guaranteed but unobligated funds, and repayment by the government
    of unobligated proceeds of bonds or other obligations after Oct. 1,
    1984, for provisions relating to entering into under Pub. L. 94-
    392, after Oct. 1, 1979, of commitments to guarantee.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574c. Priority for payment of principal and interest of
      revenue bonds or other obligations

-STATUTE-
      Each issue of bonds or other obligations issued under subsection
    (a) of section 1574a of this title shall have a parity lien with
    every other issue of bonds or other obligations issued for payment
    of principal and interest out of revenues received under section
    7652(b)(3) of title 26, except that issues guaranteed under section
    1574b of this title shall have priority, according to the date of
    issue, over issues not so guaranteed and the revenues received
    under section 7652(b)(3) of title 26 shall be pledged for the
    payment of such bonds or other obligations.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-392, Sec. 3, Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1195; Pub. L. 105-
    83, title I, Sec. 124(a), Nov. 14, 1997, 111 Stat. 1567.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      "Section 7652(b)(3) of title 26" substituted in text for "section
    28(b) of the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands [68 Stat.
    508]", which was classified to section 3350(c) of former Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code, on authority of section 7852(b) of Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code, which provided that any reference in any
    other law to a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 be
    deemed a reference to the corresponding provision of the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986.
      Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1997 - Pub. L. 105-83 substituted "a parity lien with every other
    issue of bonds or other obligations issued for payment" for
    "priority for payment" and struck out "in the order of the date of
    issue" before ", except that".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1997 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 124(b) of Pub. L. 105-83 provided that: "The amendments
    made by subsection (a) [amending this section] shall apply to
    obligations issued on or after the date of enactment of this
    section [Nov. 14, 1997]."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1574d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1574d. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1574d. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 308(g), Oct.
      19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.
      Section, Pub. L. 94-392, Sec. 4, Aug. 19, 1976, 90 Stat. 1195,
    related to grants to government of Virgin Islands for operation of
    such government and limitation on amount of such grants.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1575                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1575. Legislative procedure

-STATUTE-
    (a) Quorum and method of voting on bills
      The number of members of the legislature needed to constitute a
    quorum shall be determined by the laws of the Virgin Islands. No
    bill shall become a law unless it shall have been passed at a
    meeting, at which a quorum was present, by the affirmative vote of
    a majority of the members present and voting, which vote shall be
    by yeas and nays.
    (b) Enacting clause of acts
      The enacting clause of all acts shall be as follows: "Be it
    enacted by the Legislature of the Virgin Islands".
    (c) Governor's message and budget
      The Governor shall submit at the opening of each regular session
    of the legislature a message on the state of the Virgin Islands and
    a budget of estimated receipts and expenditures, which shall be the
    basis of the appropriation bills for the ensuing fiscal year, which
    shall commence on the first day of July or such other date as the
    Legislature of the Virgin Islands may determine.
    (d) Approval and disapproval of bills
      Every bill passed by the legislature shall, before it becomes a
    law, be presented to the Governor. If the Governor approves the
    bill, he shall sign it. If the Governor disapproves the bill, he
    shall, except as hereinafter provided, return it, with his
    objections, to the legislature within ten days (Sundays excepted)
    after it shall have been presented to him. If the Governor does not
    return the bill within such period, it shall be a law in like
    manner as if he had signed it, unless the legislature by
    adjournment prevents its return, in which case it shall be a law if
    signed by the Governor within thirty days after it shall have been
    presented to him; otherwise it shall not be a law. When a bill is
    returned by the Governor to the legislature with his objections,
    the legislature shall enter his objections at large on its journal
    and, upon motion of a member of the legislature, proceed to
    reconsider the bill. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds of
    all the members of the legislature pass the bill, it shall be a
    law. If any bill presented to the Governor contains several items
    of appropriation of money, he may object to one or more of such
    items, or any part or parts, portion or portions thereof, while
    approving the other items, parts, or portions of the bill. In such
    a case he shall append to the bill, at the time of signing it, a
    statement of the items, or parts or portions thereof, to which he
    objects, and the items, or parts or portions thereof, so objected
    to shall not take effect, unless the legislature, after
    reconsideration upon motion of a member thereof, passes such items,
    parts, or portions so objected to by a vote of two-thirds of all
    the members of the legislature.
    (e) Use of prior appropriations upon failure to pass appropriation
      bills
      If at the termination of any fiscal year the legislature shall
    have failed to pass appropriation bills providing for payment of
    the obligations and necessary current expenses of the government of
    the Virgin Islands for the ensuing fiscal year, then the several
    sums appropriated in the last appropriation bills for the objects
    and purposes therein specified, so far as the same may be
    applicable, shall be deemed to be reappropriated item by item.
    (f) Journal of proceedings; contents
      The legislature shall keep a journal of its proceedings and
    publish the same. Every bill passed by the legislature and the yeas
    and nays on any question shall be entered on the journal.
    (g) Transmittal of laws to Congress
      A listing of all laws enacted by the legislature each year shall
    be transmitted with the annual report to Congress required pursuant
    to section 1591 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 9, 68 Stat. 501; Pub. L. 90-496,
    Secs. 2, 3, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 837; Pub. L. 95-134, title III,
    Sec. 301(b), Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1163; Pub. L. 95-348, Sec.
    4(c)(1), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 490; Pub. L. 96-470, title II,
    Sec. 206(d), Oct. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 2244; Pub. L. 106-364, Sec. 2,
    Oct. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 1408.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2000 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 106-364 amended first sentence
    generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as follows: "The
    quorum of the legislature shall consist of eight of its members."
      1980 - Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 96-470 substituted provision
    requiring a listing of all laws enacted by the legislature each
    year be transmitted with the annual report to Congress required by
    section 1591 of this title for provision requiring copies of all
    laws enacted by the legislature be transmitted within 15 days of
    their enactment by the Governor to the Secretary of the Interior
    and by the Secretary annually to Congress.
      1978 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-348 inserted provision authorizing
    the Virgin Islands Legislature to determine other dates on which
    the fiscal year shall commence.
      1977 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 95-134 inserted ", unless the
    legislature, after reconsideration upon motion of a member thereof,
    passes such items, parts, or portions so objected to by a vote of
    two-thirds of all the members of the legislature" after "shall not
    take effect".
      1968 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 2, increased the quorum
    requirement from seven to eight members.
      Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 3, inserted requirement that
    when a bill is returned by the Governor to the legislature, a
    motion of a member of the legislature is necessary for the
    legislature to reconsider the bill, and substituted provisions that
    if, after reconsideration by the legislature, two-thirds of all the
    members of the legislature pass a bill returned by the Governor, it
    shall be a law for provisions that if, after reconsideration by the
    legislature, two-thirds of all the members of the legislature agree
    to pass the bill, it shall be presented anew to the Governor for
    his approval, provisions that if the Governor does not approve the
    bill, the bill shall be sent to the President of the United States
    for his approval, provisions that if the President disapproves the
    bill, the bill shall be returned to the Governor, stating the
    President's disapproval, and it shall not be a law, and provisions
    that if the President neither approves nor disapproves the bill
    within 90 days after it was sent to him by the Governor, the bill
    shall be a law as if the President had signed it.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that the amendment made by
    that section is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-496,
    which was approved Aug. 23, 1968.
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1576                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1576. General elections; time; transfer of Council functions,
      property, etc.

-STATUTE-
      The next general election in the Virgin Islands shall be held on
    November 2, 1954. At such time there shall be chosen the entire
    membership of the legislature as herein provided. Thereafter the
    general elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
    first Monday in November, beginning with the year 1956, and every
    two years thereafter. The Municipal Council of Saint Thomas and
    Saint John, and the Municipal Council of Saint Croix, existing on
    July 22, 1954, shall continue to function until January 10, 1955,
    at which time all of the functions, property, personnel, records,
    and unexpended balances of appropriations and funds of the
    governments of the municipality of Saint Thomas and Saint John and
    the municipality of Saint Croix shall be transferred to the
    government of the Virgin Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 10, 68 Stat. 502.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1591                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1591. Governor and Lieutenant Governor; election; eligibility;
      official residence; powers and duties; report

-STATUTE-
      The executive power of the Virgin Islands shall be vested in an
    executive officer whose official title shall be the "Governor of
    the Virgin Islands". The Governor of the Virgin Islands, together
    with the Lieutenant Governor, shall be elected by a majority of the
    votes cast by the people who are qualified to vote for the members
    of the legislature of the Virgin Islands. The Governor and
    Lieutenant Governor shall be chosen jointly, by the casting by each
    voter of a single vote applicable to both officers. If no
    candidates receive a majority of the votes cast in any election, on
    the fourteenth day thereafter a run-off election shall be held
    between the candidates for Governor and Lieutenant Governor
    receiving the highest and second highest number of votes cast. The
    first election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be held
    on November 3, 1970. Thereafter, beginning with the year 1974, the
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall be elected every four years
    at the general election. The Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall
    hold office for a term of four years and until their successors are
    elected and qualified. No person who has been elected Governor for
    two full successive terms shall be again eligible to hold that
    office until one full term has intervened. The term of the elected
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor shall commence on the first Monday
    of January following the date of election.
      No person shall be eligible for election to the office of
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor unless he is an eligible voter and
    has been for five consecutive years immediately preceding the
    election a citizen of the United States and a bona fide resident of
    the Virgin Islands and will be, at the time of taking office, at
    least thirty years of age. The Governor shall maintain his official
    residence in the Government House on Saint Thomas during his
    incumbency, which house, together with land appurtenant thereto, is
    hereby transferred to the government of the Virgin Islands. While
    in Saint Croix the Governor may reside in Government House on Saint
    Croix, which house, together with land appurtenant thereto is also
    transferred to the government of the Virgin Islands.
      The Governor shall have general supervision and control of all
    the departments, bureaus, agencies, and other instrumentalities of
    the executive branch of the government of the Virgin Islands. He
    may grant pardons and reprieves and remit fines and forfeitures for
    offenses against local laws. He may veto any legislation as
    provided in this chapter. He shall appoint, and may remove, all
    officers and employees of the executive branch of the government of
    the Virgin Islands, except as otherwise provided in this or any
    other Act of Congress, or under the laws of the Virgin Islands, and
    shall commission all officers that he may be authorized to appoint.
    He shall be responsible for the faithful execution of the laws of
    the Virgin Islands and the laws of the United States applicable in
    the Virgin Islands. Whenever it becomes necessary, in case of
    disaster, invasion, insurrection, or rebellion or imminent danger
    thereof, or to prevent or suppress lawless violence, he may summon
    the posse comitatus or call out the militia or request assistance
    of the senior military or naval commander of the Armed Forces of
    the United States in the Virgin Islands or Puerto Rico, which may
    be given at the discretion of such commander if not disruptive of,
    or inconsistent with, his Federal responsibilities. He may, in case
    of rebellion or invasion or imminent danger thereof, when the
    public safety requires it, proclaim the islands, insofar as they
    are under the jurisdiction of the government of the Virgin Islands,
    to be under martial law. The members of the legislature shall meet
    forthwith on their own initiative and may, by a two-thirds vote,
    revoke such proclamation.
      The Governor shall prepare, publish, and submit to the Congress
    and the Secretary of the Interior a comprehensive annual financial
    report in conformance with the standards of the National Council on
    Governmental Accounting within one hundred and twenty days after
    the close of the fiscal year. The comprehensive annual financial
    report shall include statistical data as set forth in the standards
    of the National Council on Governmental Accounting relating to the
    physical, economic, social, and political characteristics of the
    government, and any other information required by the Congress. The
    Governor shall also make such other reports at such other times as
    may be required by the Congress or under applicable Federal law. He
    shall have the power to issue executive orders and regulations not
    in conflict with any applicable law. He may recommend bills to the
    legislature and give expression to his views on any matter before
    that body.
      There is hereby established the office of Lieutenant Governor of
    the Virgin Islands. The Lieutenant Governor shall have such
    executive powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to him
    by the Governor or prescribed by this chapter or under the laws of
    the Virgin Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 11, 68 Stat. 503; Pub. L. 90-496,
    Sec. 4, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 837; Pub. L. 97-357, title III,
    Sec. 309(a), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710; Pub. L. 98-454, title V,
    Sec. 502, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1735; Pub. L. 105-362, title IX,
    Sec. 901(n), Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3290.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, which is
    classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1541 of this title and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Pub. L. 105-362, in fourth paragraph, struck out "The
    Governor shall transmit the comprehensive annual financial report
    to the Inspector General of the Department of the Interior who
    shall audit it and report his findings to the Congress." after
    "other information required by the Congress." and "He shall also
    submit to the Congress, the Secretary of the Interior, and the
    cognizant Federal auditors a written statement of actions taken or
    contemplated on Federal audit recommendations within sixty days
    after the issuance date of the audit report." after "under
    applicable Federal law."
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 substituted "Saint Croix, which house,
    together with land appurtenant thereto is also transferred to the
    government of the Virgin Islands" for "Saint Croix free of rent" in
    second paragraph.
      1982 - Pub. L. 97-357, in fourth paragraph, substituted
    provisions relating to the preparation, etc., of a comprehensive
    annual financial report to be submitted to the Congress, the
    Secretary of the Interior, and the Inspector General of the
    Department of the Interior, preparation of other reports as
    required by Congress or applicable Federal law, and submittal of a
    written statement of actions taken or contemplated on Federal audit
    recommendations for provisions relating to an annual report of
    transactions of the Virgin Islands government to the Secretary of
    the Interior for transmittal to Congress and such other reports as
    required by Congress or applicable Federal law.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-496 amended section generally, providing for
    the popular election of the Governor and Lieutenant Governor,
    setting the date of the first election, defining the scope of their
    authority, setting out the duties of their offices, specifying the
    qualifications for the offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor,
    and providing that an elected Governor may serve two full
    successive terms but shall not be again eligible to hold that
    office until one full term has intervened.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 16 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that: "Those provisions of
    this Act [see Short Title note set out under section 1541 of this
    title] necessary to authorize the holding of an election for
    Governor and Lieutenant Governor on November 3, 1970, shall be
    effective January 1, 1970. All other provisions of this Act, unless
    otherwise expressly provided herein, shall be effective January 4,
    1971."

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in the 1st
    sentence of the 4th par. of this section relating to the
    requirement that the Governor submit a comprehensive annual
    financial report to Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66,
    as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money
    and Finance, and the 11th item on page 115 of House Document No.
    103-7.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of the Virgin
    Islands, see section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1592                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1592. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1592. Repealed. Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 8(a), Sept. 6, 1966, 80
      Stat. 657.
      Section, act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 20(a), 68 Stat. 505,
    prescribed compensation of Governor.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 20 of act July 22, 1954, was amended in its entirety by
    section 10 of Pub. L. 90-496, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 841, which
    consolidated the text of said section 20 into a single unlettered
    paragraph, classified to section 1641 of this title. Prior to the
    1968 amendment said section 20 was comprised of subsecs. (a) to
    (c). Subsec. (a) was classified to this section, and subsecs. (b)
    and (c) were classified to sections 1598 and 1641, respectively, of
    this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1593                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1593. Initiative and recall

-STATUTE-
    (a) Grant of rights
      The people of the Virgin Islands shall have the rights of
    initiative and recall to be exercised as provided in subsection (b)
    and subsection (c) of this section, respectively.
    (b) Initiative
      (1) An initiative may enact, amend, or repeal any law, except
    that an initiative shall not be used to repeal a law declared by
    the legislature at the time of passage to be an emergency law
    necessary for the preservation of the public health, safety, or
    peace.
      (2) An initiative that proposes a reduction of taxes shall also
    provide for an equivalent reduction of expenditures or an
    equivalent increase in revenues from other sources.
      (3) An initiative shall address one subject only and matters
    reasonably related to that subject.
      (4) The ballot question shall be in such form that a "yes" vote
    is a vote in favor of the proposal and a "no" vote is a vote
    against the proposal.
      (5) A copy of the proposed initiative petition, including a
    complete text of the proposed law and containing signatures equal
    to at least 1 percent of the voters of each legislative district or
    4 percent of all voters of the Virgin Islands must be submitted to
    the Supervisor of Elections prior to circulation for ballot
    qualification. The Supervisor of Elections must determine within 10
    days after the submission whether the preliminary signatures are
    sufficient. If so determined, the Supervisor of Elections shall
    refer the preliminary petition to an initiative titling board
    consisting of the Attorney General, the Supervisor of Elections,
    and the legislative counsel of the legislature. The board shall, in
    an open hearing, prepare the official ballot title, the submission
    question, and a summary of the initiative proposal, and this
    preparation shall be completed within 30 days after the referral.
      (6) After the ballot title has been written, proponents of the
    initiative proposal shall have a maximum of 180 days to circulate
    the petition. Petitions containing signatures equal to at least 10
    percent of the voters of each legislative district or 41 percent of
    all voters of the Virgin Islands must be submitted to the
    Supervisor of Elections. The Supervisor shall have 15 days to
    determine that the minimum number of valid signatures are contained
    in the petition and he shall forward the certified proposal to the
    legislature which must accept or reject the measure within 30 days.
    If approved, the initiative shall take effect in accordance with
    its terms. If the legislature does not approve, the initiative
    shall be submitted to the voters at the next general election,
    unless the legislature approves a special election for this
    purpose. The legislature may submit its own version of the
    initiative to the voters. Should both measures be approved by the
    voters, the measure receiving the higher number of votes shall
    prevail. The voters shall have a clear alternative of rejecting
    either version or the entire proposition.
      (7) An initiative submitted to the voters shall take effect if
    the initiative is approved by a majority of persons voting and if a
    majority of the voters of the Virgin Islands vote on the
    initiative. An initiative may not be vetoed by the Governor, and
    when approved by the voters, may not be amended or repealed by the
    legislature during the 3-year period after its approval unless the
    legislature acts by a two-thirds majority.
      (8) The legislature may provide the manner in which petitions
    shall be circulated, filed, certified, and the ballot question
    shall be submitted to the voters.
    (c) Recall
      (1) An elected public official of the Virgin Islands may be
    removed from office by a recall election carried out under this
    subsection. The grounds for recall are any of the following: lack
    of fitness, incompetence, neglect of duty, or corruption.
      (2) A recall election may be initiated by a two-thirds vote of
    the members of the legislature or by a petition under this
    subsection.
      (3) Prior to circulation a recall petition which identifies by
    name and office the official being recalled and which states the
    grounds for recall shall be submitted to the Supervisor of
    Elections. The sponsors of the recall petition shall be allowed a
    period of 60 days after such submission for filing with the
    Supervisor of Elections a list of signatures equal in number to at
    least 50 percent of the whole number of votes cast for that office
    in the last general election at which that office was filled. The
    Supervisor of Elections shall have 15 days in which to determine
    whether the minimum number of valid signatures are contained in the
    recall petition.
      (4) A special recall election shall be held with respect to an
    elected public official not earlier than 30 days after a vote of
    the legislature under paragraph (2) or a determination of the board
    of elections under paragraph (3), as the case may be, and not later
    than 60 days after such vote or determination.
      (5) An official shall be removed from office upon approval of the
    recall in an election in which at least two-thirds of the number of
    persons voting for such official in the last preceding general
    election at which such official was elected vote in favor of recall
    and in which those so voting constitute a majority of all those
    participating in such recall election.
      (6) No recall election shall be held with respect to an elected
    public official - 
        (A) during the first year of the first term of office of the
      official; or
        (B) less than 3 months before a general election for the
      office.
    (d) "Law" and "voter" defined
      As used in this section, the term - 
        (1) "law" means a law of the Virgin Islands; and
        (2) "voter" means a registered voter who is eligible to vote on
      the issue or for the office involved.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 12, 68 Stat. 503; Pub. L. 90-496,
    Sec. 5, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 838; Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 1, Aug.
    27, 1986, 100 Stat. 837.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Pub. L. 99-396 amended section generally, substituting
    provisions giving people of Virgin Islands the rights of initiative
    and recall and spelling out ways in which those rights are to be
    exercised for provisions which had formerly only set out a method
    for removal of Governor by referendum election.
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-496 substituted provisions authorizing the
    removal of the Governor from office by a recall referendum for
    provisions authorizing the appointment of a Government Secretary
    for the Virgin Islands, and provisions setting forth his powers and
    duties.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1594                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1594. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1594. Repealed. Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 6, Aug. 23, 1968, 82
      Stat. 839.
      Section, act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 13, 68 Stat. 503,
    authorized the Governor to appoint an administrative assistant to
    reside in St. Croix and an administrative assistant to reside in
    St. John.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Section 6 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided in part that the repeal of
    this section is effective on the date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-
    496, which was approved Aug. 23, 1968.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1595                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1595. Vacancy in office of Governor or Lieutenant Governor

-STATUTE-
    (a) Temporary disability or temporary absence of Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of the
    Governor, the Lieutenant Governor shall have the powers of the
    Governor.
    (b) Permanent vacancy in office of Governor; Lieutenant Governor as
      Governor; term of office
      In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Governor, arising
    by reason of the death, resignation, removal by recall or permanent
    disability of the Governor, or the death, resignation, or permanent
    disability of a Governor-elect, or for any other reason, the
    Lieutenant Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect shall become the
    Governor, to hold office for the unexpired term and until he or his
    successor shall have been duly elected and qualified at the next
    regular election for Governor.
    (c) Temporary disability or temporary absence of Lieutenant
      Governor; president of legislature as Lieutenant Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of the
    Lieutenant Governor, or during any period when the Lieutenant
    Governor is acting as Governor, the president of the legislature
    shall act as Lieutenant Governor.
    (d) Permanent vacancy in office of Lieutenant Governor; Governor to
      appoint new Lieutenant Governor with advice and consent of
      legislature; term of office
      In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Lieutenant
    Governor, arising by reason of the death, resignation, or permanent
    disability of the Lieutenant Governor, or because the Lieutenant
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor-elect has succeeded to the office
    of Governor, the Governor shall appoint a new Lieutenant Governor,
    with the advice and consent of the legislature, to hold office for
    the unexpired term and until he or his successor shall have been
    duly elected and qualified at the next regular election for
    Lieutenant Governor.
    (e) Temporary disability or temporary absence of Governor and
      Lieutenant Governor; appointment of Acting Governor; permanent
      vacancies in offices of Governor and Lieutenant Governor;
      appointment of Governor
      In case of the temporary disability or temporary absence of both
    the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor, the powers of the
    Governor shall be exercised, as Acting Governor, by such person as
    the laws of the Virgin Islands may prescribe. In case of a
    permanent vacancy in the offices of both the Governor and
    Lieutenant Governor, the office of Governor shall be filled for the
    unexpired term in the manner prescribed by the laws of the Virgin
    Islands.
    (f) Additional compensation
      No additional compensation shall be paid to any person acting as
    Governor or Lieutenant Governor who does not also assume the office
    of Governor or Lieutenant Governor under the provisions of this
    chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 14, 68 Stat. 504; Pub. L. 90-496,
    Sec. 7(a), Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 839.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-496 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a), substituted provisions that in case of the temporary
    disability or temporary absence of the Governor, the Lieutenant
    Governor shall have the powers of the Governor for provisions that
    in case of a vacancy in the office of Governor or the disability of
    the Governor or the temporary absence of the Governor, the
    Government Secretary shall have all the powers of the Governor, and
    added subsecs. (b) to (f).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1596                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1596. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1596. Repealed. Pub. L. 104-186, title II, Sec. 224(3), Aug.
      20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1752.
      Section, act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 15, as added May 27,
    1975, Pub. L. 94-26, Sec. 2, 89 Stat. 94, related to clerk hire
    allowance and reimbursement for transportation expenses of the
    Delegate from the Virgin Islands to the House of Representatives.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1597                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1597. Reorganization of government

-STATUTE-
    (a) Consolidation of departments, bureaus, etc.; popular election
      of school board members
      The Governor shall, within one year after July 22, 1954,
    reorganize and consolidate the existing executive departments,
    bureaus, independent boards, agencies, authorities, commissions,
    and other instrumentalities of the government of the Virgin Islands
    or of the municipal governments into not more than nine executive
    departments except for independent bodies whose existence may be
    required by Federal law for participation in Federal programs. The
    head of each executive department other than the department of law
    shall be designated as the commissioner thereof, and the
    commissioner of finance shall be bonded. The head of the department
    of law shall be known as the attorney general of the Virgin
    Islands. Members of school boards, which entities of government
    have been duly organized and established by the government of the
    Virgin Islands, shall be popularly elected.
    (b) Changes after examination from time to time
      The Governor shall, from time to time, after complying with the
    provisions of subsection (a) of this section, examine the
    organization of the executive branch of the government of the
    Virgin Islands, and shall make such changes therein, subject to the
    approval of the legislature, not inconsistent with this chapter, as
    he determines are necessary to promote effective management and to
    execute faithfully the purposes of this chapter and the laws of the
    Virgin Islands.
    (c) Appointment of department heads; tenure; removal; powers and
      duties; appointments to boards, etc.
      The heads of the executive departments created by this chapter
    shall be appointed by the Governor, with the advice and consent of
    the legislature. Each shall hold office during the continuance in
    office of the Governor by whom he is appointed and until his
    successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed by the
    Governor. Each shall have such powers and duties as may be
    prescribed by the legislature. The chairman and members of any
    board, authority, or commission established by the laws of the
    Virgin Islands shall, if the laws of the Virgin Islands hereafter
    provide, also be appointed by the Governor with the advice and
    consent of the legislature, if such board, authority, or commission
    has quasi-judicial functions: Provided, That no law of the Virgin
    Islands dealing with the chairmanship, membership, or chairmanship
    and membership of any such board, authority, or commission, and
    requiring an appointment or appointments to be made with the advice
    and consent of the legislature, shall relate to more than one such
    board, authority, or commission, nor shall it relate to any other
    legislative matter.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 16, 68 Stat. 504; Pub. L. 85-224,
    Aug. 30, 1957, 71 Stat. 510; Pub. L. 86-289, Sec. 3, Sept. 16,
    1959, 73 Stat. 569; Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 8(a), Aug. 23, 1968, 82
    Stat. 839.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 90-496 substituted provisions that
    members of school boards which have been duly organized by the
    government of the Virgin Islands be popularly elected for
    provisions that required the approval of the Secretary of the
    Interior for the establishment of any new department, agency, or
    other instrumentality by the Governor or the legislature, unless
    such department, agency, etc., was required by Federal law for
    participation in Federal programs.
      1959 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 86-289 provided that the head of the
    department of law should be known as the attorney general of the
    Virgin Islands.
      1957 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 85-224 provided for appointments to
    boards, authorities or commissions.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1598                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1598. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 20(b), 68 Stat. 505,
    which related to compensation of the Government Secretary,
    department heads, and staffs of the Governor and Government
    Secretary, was superseded by section 10 of Pub. L. 90-496, Aug. 23,
    1968, 82 Stat. 841, which amended section 1641 of this title. See
    Codification note set out under section 1641 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1599                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER IV - EXECUTIVE BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1599. Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
      Virgin Islands to Inspector General, Department of the Interior

-STATUTE-
    (a) Functions, powers, and duties transferred
      The following functions, powers, and duties heretofore vested in
    the government comptroller for the Virgin Islands are hereby
    transferred to the Inspector General, Department of the Interior,
    for the purpose of establishing an organization which will maintain
    a satisfactory level of independent audit oversight of the
    government of the Virgin Islands:
        (1) The authority to audit all accounts pertaining to the
      revenue and receipts of the government of the Virgin Islands, and
      of funds derived from bond issues, and the authority to audit, in
      accordance with law and administrative regulations, all
      expenditures of funds and property pertaining to the government
      of the Virgin Islands including those pertaining to trust funds
      held by the government of the Virgin Islands.
        (2) The authority to report to the Secretary of the Interior
      and the Governor of the Virgin Islands all failures to collect
      amounts due the government, and expenditures of funds or uses of
      property which are irregular or not pursuant to law.
    (b) Scope of authority transferred
      The authority granted in paragraph (a) of this section shall
    extend to all activities of the government of the Virgin Islands,
    and shall be in addition to the authority conferred upon the
    Inspector General by the Inspector General Act of 1978 (92 Stat.
    1101), as amended.
    (c) Transfer of personnel, assets, etc., of office of government
      comptroller for Virgin Islands to Office of Inspector General,
      Department of the Interior
      In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the
    personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and
    unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations,
    and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available or to
    be made available, of the office of the government comptroller for
    the Virgin Islands related to its audit function are hereby
    transferred to the Office of Inspector General, Department of the
    Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 17, as added Pub. L. 97-357, title
    III, Sec. 309(b), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1710.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (b), is
    Pub. L. 95-452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, as amended, which is
    set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and
    Employees.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      A prior section 1599, acts July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 17, 68
    Stat. 505; Aug. 28, 1958, Pub. L. 85-851, Secs. 4, 5, 72 Stat.
    1094, 1095; Mar. 20, 1962, Pub. L. 87-421, 76 Stat. 43; Aug. 23,
    1968, Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 9, 82 Stat. 840; Oct. 15, 1977, Pub. L.
    95-134, title III, Sec. 301(a), 91 Stat. 1162, related to
    appointment, status, and duties of the government comptroller for
    the Virgin Islands, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 97-357, Sec. 309(b).

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
                      SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH                  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1611                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1611. District Court of Virgin Islands; local courts;
      jurisdiction; practice and procedure

-STATUTE-
    (a) District Court of Virgin Islands; local courts
      The judicial power of the Virgin Islands shall be vested in a
    court of record designated the "District Court of the Virgin
    Islands" established by Congress, and in such appellate court and
    lower local courts as may have been or may hereafter be established
    by local law.
    (b) Jurisdiction
      The legislature of the Virgin Islands may vest in the courts of
    the Virgin Islands established by local law jurisdiction over all
    causes in the Virgin Islands over which any court established by
    the Constitution and laws of the United States does not have
    exclusive jurisdiction. Such jurisdiction shall be subject to the
    concurrent jurisdiction conferred on the District Court of the
    Virgin Islands by section 1612(a) and (c) of this title.
    (c) Practice and procedure
      The rules governing the practice and procedure of the courts
    established by local law and those prescribing the qualifications
    and duties of the judges and officers thereof, oaths and bonds, and
    the times and places of holding court shall be governed by local
    law or the rules promulgated by those courts.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 21, 68 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 98-454,
    title VII, Sec. 702, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1737.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a), inserted "established by Congress" before "and in such" and
    substituted "appellate court and lower local courts as may have
    been or may hereafter be established by local law" for "court or
    courts of inferior jurisdiction as have been or may hereafter be
    established by local law", and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1612                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1612. Jurisdiction of District Court

-STATUTE-
    (a) Jurisdiction
      The District Court of the Virgin Islands shall have the
    jurisdiction of a District Court of the United States, including,
    but not limited to, the diversity jurisdiction provided for in
    section 1332 of title 28 and that of a bankruptcy court of the
    United States. The District Court of the Virgin Islands shall have
    exclusive jurisdiction over all criminal and civil proceedings in
    the Virgin Islands with respect to the income tax laws applicable
    to the Virgin Islands, regardless of the degree of the offense or
    of the amount involved, except the ancillary laws relating to the
    income tax enacted by the legislature of the Virgin Islands. Any
    act or failure to act with respect to the income tax laws
    applicable to the Virgin Islands which would constitute a criminal
    offense described in chapter 75 of subtitle F of title 26 shall
    constitute an offense against the government of the Virgin Islands
    and may be prosecuted in the name of the government of the Virgin
    Islands by the appropriate officers thereof in the District Court
    of the Virgin Islands without the request or the consent of the
    United States attorney for the Virgin Islands, notwithstanding the
    provisions of section 1617 of this title.
    (b) General jurisdiction; limitations
      In addition to the jurisdiction described in subsection (a) the
    District Court of the Virgin Islands shall have general original
    jurisdiction in all causes in the Virgin Islands the jurisdiction
    over which is not then vested by local law in the local courts of
    the Virgin Islands: Provided, That the jurisdiction of the District
    Court of the Virgin Islands under this subsection shall not extend
    to civil actions wherein the matter in controversy does not exceed
    the sum or value of $500, exclusive of interest and costs; to
    criminal cases wherein the maximum punishment which may be imposed
    does not exceed a fine of $100 or imprisonment for six months, or
    both; and to violations of local police and executive regulations.
    The courts established by local law shall have jurisdiction over
    the civil actions, criminal cases, and violations set forth in the
    preceding proviso. In causes brought in the district court solely
    on the basis of this subsection, the district court shall be
    considered a court established by local law for the purposes of
    determining the availability of indictment by grand jury or trial
    by jury.
    (c) Criminal offenses; concurrent jurisdiction with local courts
      The District Court of the Virgin Islands shall have concurrent
    jurisdiction with the courts of the Virgin Islands established by
    local law over those offenses against the criminal laws of the
    Virgin Islands, whether felonies or misdemeanors or both, which are
    of the same or similar character or part of, or based on, the same
    act or transaction or two or more acts or transactions connected
    together or constituting part of a common scheme or plan, if such
    act or transaction or acts or transactions also constitutes or
    constitute an offense or offenses against one or more of the
    statutes over which the District Court of the Virgin Islands has
    jurisdiction pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 22, 68 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 95-598,
    title III, Sec. 336(a), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2680; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title VII, Sec. 703(a), title X, Sec. 1001, Oct. 5, 1984, 98
    Stat. 1738, 1745; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat.
    2095.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, which is
    classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1541 of this title and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986" for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954", which for
    purposes of codification was translated as "title 26" thus
    requiring no change in text.
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 amended section generally, designating
    existing provisions as subsec. (a), substituted provisions that
    District Court would have all jurisdiction of a district court of
    the United States, including diversity jurisdiction and bankruptcy
    jurisdiction as well as civil and criminal matters regarding the
    income tax laws applicable to the Virgin Islands for former
    provisions conferring general jurisdiction on the court and
    providing for the transfer of cases, repealed section 336 of Pub.
    L. 95-598, which had amended this section, and added subsecs. (b)
    and (c).
      1978 - Pub. L. 95-598 inserted "and a bankruptcy court" after
    "jurisdiction of a district court".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 402(e) of Pub. L. 95-598, which provided a prospective
    effective date for the amendment of this section by section 336(a)
    of Pub. L. 95-598, was repealed by section 1001 of Pub. L. 98-454.

             JURISDICTION OF DISTRICT COURT OVER PENDING CASES         
      Section 703(b) of Pub. L. 98-454 provided that: "The provisions
    of this section [amending this section] shall not result in the
    loss of jurisdiction of the District Court of the Virgin Islands
    over any complaint or proceeding pending in it on the day preceding
    the effective date of this amendatory Act [see Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note set out under section 1424 of this title] and
    such complaint and proceeding may be pursued to final determination
    in the District Court of the Virgin Islands, the United States
    Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, and the Supreme Court,
    notwithstanding the provisions of this amendatory Act [Pub. L. 98-
    454]."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1613                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1613. Relations between courts of United States and courts of
      Virgin Islands; review by United States Court of Appeals for
      Third Circuit; reports to Congress; rules

-STATUTE-
      The relations between the courts established by the Constitution
    or laws of the United States and the courts established by local
    law with respect to appeals, certiorari, removal of causes, the
    issuance of writs of habeas corpus, and other matters or
    proceedings shall be governed by the laws of the United States
    pertaining to the relations between the courts of the United
    States, including the Supreme Court of the United States, and the
    courts of the several States in such matters and proceedings:
    Provided, That for the first fifteen years following the
    establishment of the appellate court authorized by section 1611(a)
    of this title, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
    Circuit shall have jurisdiction to review by writ of certiorari all
    final decisions of the highest court of the Virgin Islands from
    which a decision could be had. The Judicial Council of the Third
    Circuit shall submit reports to the Committee on Energy and Natural
    Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of
    the House of Representatives at intervals of five years following
    the establishment of such appellate court as to whether it has
    developed sufficient institutional traditions to justify direct
    review by the Supreme Court of the United States from all such
    final decisions. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third
    Circuit shall have jurisdiction to promulgate rules necessary to
    carry out the provisions of this section.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 23, 68 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 98-454,
    title VII, Sec. 704, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1739; Pub. L. 103-437,
    Sec. 17(a)(4), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4595.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1994 - Pub. L. 103-437 substituted "Natural Resources" for
    "Interior and Insular Affairs" before "of the House".
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 amended section generally, substituting
    provisions relating to the relations between local law courts and
    already established courts under the Constitution or laws of the
    United States with respect to appeals, certiorari, etc. and
    providing that the Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit shall
    have jurisdiction to review all final decisions from the highest
    court of the Virgin Islands for fifteen years after the appellate
    court is established for former provisions relating to the
    jurisdiction of inferior courts, transfer of actions, status as
    committing court, bail and rules.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law
    requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other
    regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103-7 (in
    which a report required under this section is listed as the 1st
    item on page 13), see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended,
    set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and
    Finance.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1613a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1613a. Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
      review by United States Court of Appeals for Third Circuit;
      rules; appeals to appellate court

-STATUTE-
    (a) Appellate jurisdiction of District Court
      Prior to the establishment of the appellate court authorized by
    section 1611(a) of this title, the District Court of the Virgin
    Islands shall have such appellate jurisdiction over the courts of
    the Virgin Islands established by local law to the extent now or
    hereafter prescribed by local law: Provided, That the legislature
    may not preclude the review of any judgment or order which involves
    the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, including
    this chapter, or any authority exercised thereunder by an officer
    or agency of the Government of the United States, or the conformity
    of any law enacted by the legislature of the Virgin Islands or of
    any order or regulation issued or action taken by the executive
    branch of the government of the Virgin Islands with the
    Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States, including
    this chapter, or any authority exercised thereunder by an officer
    or agency of the United States.
    (b) Appellate division of District Court; quorum; presiding judge;
      designation of judges; decisions
      Appeals to the District Court of the Virgin Islands shall be
    heard and determined by an appellate division of the court
    consisting of three judges, of whom two shall constitute a quorum.
    The chief judge of the district court shall be the presiding judge
    of the appellate division and shall preside therein unless
    disqualified or otherwise unable to act. The other judges who are
    to sit in the appellate division at any session shall be designated
    by the presiding judge from among the judges who are serving on, or
    are assigned to, the district court from time to time pursuant to
    section 1614(a) of this chapter: Provided, That no more than one of
    them may be a judge of a court established by local law. The
    concurrence of two judges shall be necessary to any decision by the
    appellate division of the district court on the merits of an
    appeal, but the presiding judge alone may make any appropriate
    orders with respect to an appeal prior to the hearing and
    determination thereof on the merits and may dismiss an appeal for
    want of jurisdiction or failure to take or prosecute it in
    accordance with the applicable law or rules of procedure. Appeals
    pending in the district court on the effective date of this Act
    (!1) shall be heard and determined by a single judge.

    (c) United States Court of Appeals for Third Circuit; jurisdiction;
      appeals; rules
      The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit shall
    have jurisdiction of appeals from all final decisions of the
    district court on appeal from the courts established by local law.
    The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit shall have
    jurisdiction to promulgate rules necessary to carry out the
    provisions of this subsection.
    (d) Appeals to appellate court; effect on District Court
      Upon the establishment of the appellate court provided for in
    section 1611(a) of this title all appeals from the decisions of the
    courts of the Virgin Islands established by local law not
    previously taken must be taken to that appellate court. The
    establishment of the appellate court shall not result in the loss
    of jurisdiction of the district court over any appeal then pending
    in it. The rulings of the district court on such appeals may be
    reviewed in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
    Circuit and in the Supreme Court notwithstanding the establishment
    of the appellate court.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 23A, as added Pub. L. 98-454, title
    VII, Sec. 705, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1739.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This chapter, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), was in the
    original "this Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat.
    497, as amended, known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin
    Islands, which is classified principally to this chapter. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1541 of this title and Tables.
      The effective date of this Act, referred to in subsec. (b),
    probably means the effective date of title VII of Pub. L. 98-454,
    which is 90 days after Oct. 5, 1984, and which enacted this
    section.


-MISC1-
                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Section effective on ninetieth day following Oct. 5, 1984, see
    section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as an Effective Date of
    1984 Amendment note under section 1424 of this title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1614                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1614. Judges of District Court

-STATUTE-
    (a) Appointment; tenure; removal; chief judge; compensation
      The President shall, by and with the advice and consent of the
    Senate, appoint two judges for the District Court of the Virgin
    Islands, who shall hold office for terms of ten years and until
    their successors are chosen and qualified, unless sooner removed by
    the President for cause. The judge of the district court who is
    senior in continuous service and who otherwise qualifies under
    section 136(a) of title 28 shall be the chief judge of the court.
    The salary of a judge of the district court shall be at the rate
    prescribed for judges of the United States district courts.
    Whenever it is made to appear that such an assignment is necessary
    for the proper dispatch of the business of the district court, the
    chief judge of the Third Judicial Circuit of the United States may
    assign a judge of a court of record of the Virgin Islands
    established by local law, or a circuit or district judge of the
    Third Judicial Circuit, or a recalled senior judge of the District
    Court of the Virgin Islands, or the Chief Justice of the United
    States may assign any other United States circuit or district judge
    with the consent of the judge so assigned and of the chief judge of
    his circuit, to serve temporarily as a judge of the District Court
    of the Virgin Islands. The compensation of the judges of the
    district court and the administrative expenses of the court shall
    be paid from appropriations made for the judiciary of the United
    States.
    (b) Criminal offenses; procedure; definitions; indictment and
      information
      Where appropriate, the provisions of part II of title 18 and of
    title 28 and, notwithstanding the provisions of rule 7(a) and of
    rule 54(a) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure relating to
    the requirement of indictment and to the prosecution of criminal
    offenses in the Virgin Islands by information, respectively, the
    rules of practice heretofore or hereafter promulgated and made
    effective by the Congress or the Supreme Court of the United States
    pursuant to titles 11, 18, and 28 shall apply to the district court
    and appeals therefrom: Provided, That the terms "Attorney for the
    government" and "United States attorney" as used in the Federal
    Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall, when applicable to causes
    arising under the income tax laws applicable to the Virgin Islands,
    mean the Attorney General of the Virgin Islands or such other
    person or persons as may be authorized by the laws of the Virgin
    Islands to act therein: Provided further, That in the district
    court all criminal prosecutions under the laws of the United
    States, under local law under section 1612(c) of this title, and
    under the income tax laws applicable to the Virgin Islands may be
    had by indictment by grand jury or by information: Provided
    further, That an offense which has been investigated by or
    presented to a grand jury may be prosecuted by information only by
    leave of court or with the consent of the defendant. All criminal
    prosecutions arising under local law which are tried in the
    district court pursuant to section 1612(b) of this title shall
    continue to be had by information, except such as may be required
    by the local law to be prosecuted by indictment by grand jury.
    (c) United States marshal
      The Attorney General shall appoint a United States marshal for
    the Virgin Islands, to whose office the provisions of chapter 37 of
    title 28 shall apply.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 24, 68 Stat. 506; Pub. L. 85-851,
    Sec. 7, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1095; Pub. L. 91-272, Sec. 3(b),
    June 2, 1970, 84 Stat. 296; Pub. L. 98-454, title VII, Sec. 706(a),
    (b), Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1740.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, referred to in subsec.
    (b), are set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal
    Procedure.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      In subsec. (c), "chapter 37 of title 28" substituted for "chapter
    33 of title 28" on authority of Pub. L. 89-554, Sec. 7(b), Sept. 6,
    1966, 80 Stat. 631, section 4(c) of which revised part II of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 706(a), substituted
    provisions extending the term of a judge of the district court from
    eight to ten years, further substituted "of a court of the Virgin
    Islands established by local law," for "a judge of the municipal
    court of the Virgin Islands," in third sentence, and inserted
    provisions regarding the designation of the chief judge.
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 706(b), substituted provisions
    relating to criminal procedure in the district courts for former
    provisions which related to the chief judge of the district court
    and which are now set out in subsec. (a).
      1970 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 91-272 designated existing provisions
    as subsec. (a), increased from one to two the number of district
    judges, added judges of the municipal court of the Virgin Islands
    to the list of judges from which may be drawn temporary judges for
    the district court, and transferred to subsec. (c) provisions
    covering the appointment of a United States marshal for the Virgin
    Islands.
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 91-272 added subsec. (b).
      Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 91-272 added subsec. (c), the substance of
    which was formerly contained in subsec. (a).
      1958 - Pub. L. 85-851 substituted "the Attorney General shall
    appoint a United States marshal" for "the Attorney General shall,
    as heretofore, appoint a marshal and one deputy marshal".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

       CHIEF JUDGE; DISTRICT COURT; DETERMINATION AND QUALIFICATIONS   
      Section 706(c) of Pub. L. 98-454 provided that: "The provisions
    of subsection (a) of this section [amending this section] regarding
    the determination and qualifications of the chief judge of the
    District Court of the Virgin Islands shall not apply to a person
    serving as chief judge of said court on the effective date of this
    Act [see Effective Date of 1984 Amendment note set out under
    section 1424 of this title]."

                   EXTENSION OF TERM OF DISTRICT JUDGES               
      Extension of term of district court judges to ten years
    applicable to judges holding office on Oct. 5, 1984, see section
    1004 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note under section 1424b of
    this title.

                             PRESENT INCUMBENT                         
      Enactment of this chapter as not affecting term of office of
    judge of the District Court of the Virgin Islands in office on the
    date of its enactment, see Effective Date note set out under
    section 1541 of this title.

                   RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT OF JUDGES               
      Resignation and retirement of judges in the Territories and
    possessions, see section 373 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1615                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1615. Judicial divisions

-STATUTE-
      The Virgin Islands consists of two judicial divisions; the
    Division of Saint Croix, comprising the island of Saint Croix and
    adjacent islands and cays, and the Division of Saint Thomas and
    Saint John, comprising the islands of Saint Thomas and Saint John
    and adjacent islands and cays.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 25, 68 Stat. 507; Pub. L. 95-598,
    title III, Sec. 336(b), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2680; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title VII, Sec. 707, title X, Sec. 1001, Oct. 5, 1984, 98
    Stat. 1741, 1745; Pub. L. 101-219, title II, Sec. 203, Dec. 12,
    1989, 103 Stat. 1874.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1989 - Pub. L. 101-219 struck out provision that court for the
    Division of Saint Croix be held in Christiansted and for the
    Division of Saint Thomas and Saint John at Charlotte Amalie.
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 amended section generally, inserting
    provisions setting forth places for the holding of court of each
    judicial division and striking out provisions relating to the
    applicability of procedural rules and prosecutions by information
    and indictment, which are now covered under section 1614 of this
    title, and repealed section 336 of Pub. L. 95-598 which had amended
    this section.
      1978 - Pub. L. 95-598 substituted "section 2075 of title 28 in
    cases under title 11" for "section 53 of title 11 in bankruptcy
    cases".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 402(e) of Pub. L. 95-598, which provided a prospective
    effective date for the amendment of this section by section 336(b)
    of Pub. L. 95-598, was repealed by section 1001 of Pub. L. 98-454.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1616                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1616. Trial by jury

-STATUTE-
      All criminal cases originating in the district court shall be
    tried by jury upon demand by the defendant or by the Government. If
    no jury is demanded the case shall be tried by the judge of the
    district court without a jury, except that the judge may, on his
    own motion, order a jury for the trial of any criminal action. The
    legislature may provide for trial in misdemeanor cases by a jury of
    six qualified persons.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 26, 68 Stat. 507; Pub. L. 85-851,
    Sec. 8, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1095.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1958 - Pub. L. 85-851 substituted requirement of jury trial upon
    demand by defendant or Government for prohibition against denial to
    any person on demand of either party.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1617                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER V - JUDICIAL BRANCH

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1617. United States attorney; appointment; duties

-STATUTE-
      The President shall, by and with the advice and consent of the
    Senate, appoint a United States attorney for the Virgin Islands to
    whose office the provisions of chapter 35 of title 28, shall apply.
    Except as otherwise provided by law it shall be the duty of the
    United States attorney to prosecute all offenses against the United
    States and to conduct all legal proceedings, civil and criminal, to
    which the Government of the United States is a party in the
    district court and in the courts established by local law. He shall
    also prosecute in the district court in the name of the government
    of the Virgin Islands all offenses against the laws of the Virgin
    Islands which are cognizable by that court unless, at his request
    or with his consent, the prosecution of any such case is conducted
    by the attorney general of the Virgin Islands. The United States
    attorney may, when requested by the Governor or the attorney
    general of the Virgin Islands, conduct any other legal proceedings
    to which the government of the Virgin Islands is a party in the
    district court or the courts established by local law.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 27, 68 Stat. 507; Pub. L. 85-851,
    Sec. 9, Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1095; Pub. L. 86-289, Sec. 4, Sept.
    16, 1959, 73 Stat. 569; Pub. L. 92-24, June 2, 1971, 85 Stat. 76;
    Pub. L. 98-454, title VII, Sec. 708, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1741.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 substituted "courts established by local
    law" for "inferior courts of the Virgin Islands" wherever appearing
    and struck out provisions relating to vacancies in the office of
    United States attorney for the Virgin Islands.
      1971 - Pub. L. 92-24 substituted "chapter 35" for "chapter 31"
    and struck out "except that the Attorney General shall not appoint
    more than one assistant United States attorney for the Virgin
    Islands" after "shall apply".
      1959 - Pub. L. 86-289 substituted provisions making chapter 31 of
    title 28 applicable to United States attorney and by provisions
    specifying his duties, for provisions which prescribed his term of
    office and provided for his compensation, provided for appointment
    and compensation of his assistant and employees, and provided that
    he or his assistant conduct all legal proceedings in which the
    United States Government or the government of the Virgin Islands is
    a party in the District Court and inferior courts.
      1958 - Pub. L. 85-851 substituted "United States attorney" for
    "district attorney" wherever appearing.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS

-HEAD-
                    SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS                

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1631                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1631. Establishment and maintenance; scope

-STATUTE-
      The Governor shall establish and maintain systems of accounting
    and internal control designed to provide - 
        (a) full disclosure of the financial results of the
      government's activities;
        (b) adequate financial information needed for the government's
      management purposes;
        (c) effective control over and accountability for all funds,
      property, and other assets for which the government is
      responsible, including appropriate internal audit; and
        (d) reliable accounting results to serve as the basis for
      preparation and support of the government's request for the
      approval of the President or his designated representative for
      the obligation and expenditure of the internal revenue
      collections as provided in section 26, the Governor's budget
      request to the legislature, and for controlling the execution of
      the said budget.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 18, 68 Stat. 505.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 26, referred to in subsec. (d), probably means section 26
    of S. 3378 (act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497) prior to the
    submission of S. 3378 to the Conference Committee which
    redesignated section 26 as section 28 of S. 3378. Said section 28
    was composed of subsecs. (a) to (d). Subsecs. (a), (c), and (d)
    thereof enacted sections 1642, 1643, and 1644 of this title,
    respectively. Subsec. (b) thereof added subsec. (c) to section 3350
    of former Title 26, Internal Revenue Code. Reference to section
    3350(c) of former Title 26 is deemed a reference to section
    7652(b)(3) of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code. See section 7852(b)
    of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, which provides that any
    reference in any other law to a provision of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1939 be deemed a reference to the corresponding provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.


-MISC1-
       AGREEMENT REGARDING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND PERFORMANCE
                                 STANDARDS
      Pub. L. 106-84, Sec. 2, Oct. 28, 1999, 113 Stat. 1295, provided
    that:
      "(a) In General. - The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to
    enter into an agreement with the Governor of the Virgin Islands
    establishing mutually agreed financial accountability and
    performance standards for the fiscal operations of the Government
    of the Virgin Islands.
      "(b) Transmission to Congress. - Upon ratification of the
    agreement authorized in subsection (a) by both parties, the
    Secretary shall forward a copy of the agreement to the Committee on
    Resources [now Committee on Natural Resources] in the House of
    Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
    in the Senate."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1632                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VI - SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1632. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1632. Repealed. Pub. L. 90-496, Sec. 14, Aug. 23, 1968, 82
      Stat. 842.
      Section, act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 19, 68 Stat. 505,
    authorized Comptroller General of United States to review annually
    the office and activities of Government Comptroller of Virgin
    Islands, and report thereon to Governor, Secretary of the Interior,
    and Congress.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Section 14 of Pub. L. 90-496 provided that repeal of this section
    is effective on date of enactment of Pub. L. 90-496, which was
    approved Aug. 23, 1968.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS                

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1641                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1641. Method of payment of official salaries

-STATUTE-
      The salaries and travel allowances of the Governor, Lieutenant
    Governor, the heads of the executive departments, other officers
    and employees of the government of the Virgin Islands, and the
    members of the legislature shall be paid by the government of the
    Virgin Islands at rates prescribed by the laws of the Virgin
    Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 20, formerly Sec. 20(c), 68 Stat.
    506; Pub. L. 85-851, Sec. 6(a), Aug. 28, 1958, 72 Stat. 1095; Pub.
    L. 90-496, Sec. 10, Aug. 23, 1968, 82 Stat. 841.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Prior to the 1968 amendment of section 20 of act July 22, 1954,
    this section constituted subsec. (c) of said section 20. Subsecs.
    (a) and (b) of said section 20 were classified to sections 1592 and
    1598, respectively, of this title. Section 10 of Pub. L. 90-496
    consolidated the text of said section 20 into a single unlettered
    paragraph, classified to this section.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1968 - Pub. L. 90-496 substituted provisions that the salaries
    and travel allowances of all officials connected with the executive
    and legislative departments of the government of the Virgin Islands
    be paid by the government of the Virgin Islands at rates prescribed
    by the laws of the Virgin Islands for provisions that the salaries
    of the Governor, the Government Secretary, the government
    comptroller, and their immediate staffs be paid by the United
    States, and provisions that the salaries of the heads of the
    executive departments be paid by the government of the Virgin
    Islands, such salaries to be paid without the necessity of further
    appropriations therefor, if the legislature fails to make an
    appropriation for such salaries.
      1958 - Pub. L. 85-851 provided for the payment of the salary of
    the government comptroller by the United States instead of by the
    government of the Virgin Islands.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1968 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of provisions of section necessary to authorize the
    holding of an election for Governor and Lieutenant Governor on Nov.
    3, 1970, effective Jan. 1, 1970, and all other amendments of
    provisions of section, unless otherwise expressly provided by Pub.
    L. 90-496, effective Jan. 4, 1971, see section 16 of Pub. L. 90-
    496, set out as a note under section 1591 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1958 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 6(b) of Pub. L. 85-851 provided that: "This section 6
    [amending this section] shall become effective on July 1, 1959."

      ELIMINATION OF GENERAL FUND DEFICITS OF GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS  
      Pub. L. 96-597, title VI, Sec. 607, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3483,
    as amended by Pub. L. 97-357, title VI, Sec. 601, Oct. 19, 1982, 96
    Stat. 1712, provided that:
      "(a) In order to assist the governments of Guam and the Virgin
    Islands in eliminating general fund deficits, there is authorized
    to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior for payment to
    Guam not to exceed $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1982, and
    $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1983, $7,500,000 for fiscal year 1984,
    and $4,000,000 for fiscal year 1985; and for payment to the Virgin
    Islands not to exceed $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1982, $9,000,000
    for fiscal year 1983, $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1984, and
    $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1985.
      "(b) The Governors of Guam and the Virgin Islands shall, as a
    condition for a grant pursuant to subsection (a) of this section,
    submit a plan which is designed to eliminate the respective
    territory's general fund deficit by the beginning of fiscal year
    1987 to the Secretary of the Interior. Within sixty days after he
    has received such a plan, the Secretary of the Interior shall
    transmit the plan, together with his comments and recommendations
    to the Congress. The plan shall provide for - 
        "(1) implementation of an effective budgetary and accounting
      system;
        "(2) realistic revenue and expenditure projections which will
      progressively reduce current year general fund deficits and
      result in a balanced general fund budget no later than the
      beginning of fiscal year 1987;
        "(3) financing of accumulated general fund deficits; and
        "(4) quarterly goals and timetables for implementing the plan.
      The plan shall also indicate that the Governor has the necessary
      authority to implement the plan.
      "(c) Not later than thirty days after the close of each quarter
    which occurs after the plan has been transmitted to the Congress,
    the respective Governor shall submit a report to the Secretary of
    the Interior and the Congress describing in detail the success or
    failure of such territory in meeting the goals and timetables
    described in such plan."

    AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR GRANTS FOR ANTICIPATED DEFICITS
    DURING FISCAL YEARS 1979 THROUGH 1981; TERMS AND CONDITIONS; REPORT
                     ON FINANCIAL CONDITION; CONTENTS
      Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 4(d), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 491,
    authorized appropriations for fiscal years 1979 to 1981 for grants
    for anticipated deficits in such years, and required a report
    respecting financial conditions and activities, prior to repeal by
    Pub. L. 96-205, title IV, Sec. 404, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 89.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1642                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1642. Use of certain proceeds for expenditure; income tax
      obligations of inhabitants

-STATUTE-
      The proceeds of customs duties, the proceeds of the United States
    income tax, the proceeds of any taxes levied by the Congress on the
    inhabitants of the Virgin Islands, and the proceeds of all
    quarantine, passport, immigration, and naturalization fees
    collected in the Virgin Islands, (less the cost of collecting such
    duties, taxes and fees as may be directly attributable (as
    certified by the Comptroller of the Virgin Islands) to the
    importation of petroleum products until January 1, 1982: Provided,
    That any other retained costs not heretofore remitted pursuant to
    the Act of August 18, 1978, shall be immediately remitted to the
    Treasury of the Virgin Islands notwithstanding any other provision
    of law) shall be covered into the treasury of the Virgin Islands,
    and shall be available for expenditure as the Legislature of the
    Virgin Islands may provide: Provided, That the term "inhabitants of
    the Virgin Islands" as used in this section shall include all
    persons whose permanent residence is in the Virgin Islands, and
    such persons shall satisfy their income tax obligations under
    applicable taxing statutes of the United States by paying their tax
    on income derived from all sources both within and outside the
    Virgin Islands into the treasury of the Virgin Islands: Provided
    further, That nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply
    to any tax specified in section 3811 of the Internal Revenue Code.

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 28(a), 68 Stat. 508; Pub. L. 95-348,
    Sec. 4(c)(3), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 491; Pub. L. 96-205, title
    IV, Sec. 403(a), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 89.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Act of August 18, 1978, referred to in text, probably means Pub.
    L. 95-348, Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 487, as amended, which enacted
    sections 1645 and 1841 of this title and section 410dd of Title 16,
    Conservation, amended sections 1421h, 1469a, 1575, and 1642 of this
    title and sections 398a and 398c to 398f of Title 16, and enacted
    provisions set out as a note under sections 1421, 1641, and 1681 of
    this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Tables.
      This chapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    Act", meaning act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    known as the Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, which is
    classified principally to this chapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1541 of this title and Tables.
      Section 3811 of the Internal Revenue Code, referred to in text,
    means section 3811 of former Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, which
    was repealed by section 7851(a)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986. Similar provisions are contained in section 7651 of Title 26,
    Internal Revenue Code. For provision that any reference in any
    other law to a provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1939 be
    deemed a reference to the corresponding provision of the Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986, see section 7852(b) of Title 26.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section constitutes subsec. (a) of section 28 of act July 22,
    1954. Subsec. (b) of section 28 amended section 3350 of former
    Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, 1939, and subsecs. (c) and (d)
    thereof are classified to sections 1643 and 1644, respectively, of
    this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-205 inserted provisions relating to deductions
    for the costs of collecting the duties, taxes, and fees
    attributable to the importation of petroleum products until Jan. 1,
    1982, provided that outstanding retained costs are immediately
    remitted to the Treasury of the Virgin Islands.
      1978 - Pub. L. 95-348 struck out "less the cost of collecting all
    of said duties, taxes, and fees," before "shall be covered".

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1642a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1642a. Availability of collected customs duties for
      expenditures as Legislature may provide

-STATUTE-
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the proceeds of
    customs duties collected in the Virgin Islands less the cost of
    collecting all said duties shall, effective for fiscal years
    beginning after September 30, 1979, be covered into the Treasury of
    the Virgin Islands, and shall be available for expenditure as the
    Legislator (!1) of the Virgin Islands may provide.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-304, title I, Sec. 100, July 8, 1980, 94 Stat. 907.)


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      A prior section 1642a, Pub. L. 96-38, title I, July 25, 1979, 93
    Stat. 122, related to availability of collected customs duties for
    expenditures as the Virgin Islands Legislature may provide, prior
    to repeal by Pub. L. 96-205, title IV, Sec. 403(b), Mar. 12, 1980,
    94 Stat. 89.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "Legislature".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1643                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1643. Import provisions with respect to trade-marks

-STATUTE-
      Section 1124 of title 15, and section 1526 of title 19, shall not
    apply to importations into the Virgin Islands of genuine foreign
    merchandise bearing a genuine foreign trade-mark, but shall remain
    applicable to importations of such merchandise from the Virgin
    Islands into the United States or its possessions; and the dealing
    in or possession of any such merchandise in the Virgin Islands
    shall not constitute a violation of any registrant's right under
    the Trade Mark Act [15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.].

-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 28(c), 68 Stat. 509.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Trade Mark Act, referred to in text, probably means the
    Trademark Act of 1946, also popularly known as the Lanham Act, act
    July 5, 1946, ch. 540, 60 Stat. 427, as amended, which is
    classified generally to chapter 22 (Sec. 1051 et seq.) of Title 15,
    Commerce and Trade. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1051 of Title 15
    and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section constitutes subsec. (c) of section 28 of act July 22,
    1954. Subsec. (b) of section 28 amended section 3350 of former
    Title 26, Internal Revenue Code, 1939, and subsecs. (a) and (d)
    thereof are classified to sections 1642 and 1644, respectively, of
    this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1644                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1644. Import duties on articles entering United States or
      possessions from Virgin Islands

-STATUTE-
      All articles coming into the United States from the Virgin
    Islands shall be subject to or exempt from duty as provided for in
    section 1301a (!1) of title 19 and subject to internal-revenue
    taxes as provided for in section 7652(b) of title 26.


-SOURCE-
    (July 22, 1954, ch. 558, Sec. 28(d), 68 Stat. 509; Sept. 1, 1954,
    ch. 1213, title IV, Sec. 402(a), 68 Stat. 1140; Pub. L. 99-514,
    Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 1301a of title 19, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 87-456, title III, Sec. 301(a), May 24, 1962, 76 Stat. 75.
    See General Headnote 3(a) under section 1202 of Title 19, Customs
    Duties.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section constitutes subsec. (d) of section 28 of act July 22,
    1954. Subsecs. (a) and (c) of section 28 are classified to sections
    1642 and 1643, respectively, of this title, and subsec. (b) thereof
    amended section 3350 of former Title 26, Internal Revenue Code,
    1939.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal Revenue Code of 1986"
    for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954", which for purposes of
    codification was translated as "title 26" thus requiring no change
    in text.
      1954 - Act Sept. 1, 1954, subjected the Virgin Islands to the
    general provision for importations from insular possessions
    contained in section 1301a of Title 19, Customs Duties.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1954 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by act Sept. 1, 1954, effective on and after the
    thirtieth day following Sept. 1, 1954, see section 601 of act Sept.
    1, 1954, set out as a note under section 1421e of this title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1645                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 12 - VIRGIN ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER VII - FISCAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1645. Remittance of duties, taxes, and fees to be collected in
      next fiscal year; authorization, prerequisites, amount, etc.

-STATUTE-
      Beginning as soon as the government of the Virgin Islands enacts
    legislation establishing a fiscal year commencing on October 1 and
    ending on September 30, the Secretary of the Treasury, prior to the
    commencement of any fiscal year, shall remit to the government of
    the Virgin Islands the amount of duties, taxes, and fees which the
    Governor of the Virgin Islands, with the concurrence of the
    government comptroller of the Virgin Islands, has estimated will be
    collected in or derived from the Virgin Islands under the Revised
    Organic Act of the Virgin Islands [48 U.S.C. 1541 et seq.] during
    the next fiscal year, except for those sums covered directly upon
    collection into the treasury of the Virgin Islands. There shall be
    deducted from or added to the amounts so remitted, as may be
    appropriate, at the beginning of the fiscal year, the difference
    between the amount of duties, taxes, and fees actually collected
    during the prior fiscal year and the amount of such duties, taxes,
    and fees as estimated and remitted at the beginning of that prior
    fiscal year, including any deductions which may be required as a
    result of the operation of sections 1574a to 1574d (!1) of this
    title.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 4(c)(2), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 490.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands, referred to in
    text, is act July 22, 1954, ch. 558, 68 Stat. 497, as amended,
    which is classified principally to this chapter. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1541 of this title and Tables.
      Section 1574d of this title, referred to in text, was repealed by
    Pub. L. 97-357, title III, Sec. 308(g), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat.
    1710.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was not enacted as part of the Revised Organic Act of the
    Virgin Islands which comprises this chapter.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
                        CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA                    

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1661.       Islands of eastern Samoa.                             
    1662.       Sovereignty of United States extended over Swains
                 Island.                                              
    1662a.      Amendment of constitution of American Samoa.          
    1663.       Acknowledgment of deeds.                              
    1664.       Repealed.                                             
    1665.       Omitted.                                              
    1666.       Extension of scientific, technical, and other
                 assistance; grant-in-aid program restriction;
                 limitations on expenditures.                         
    1667.       Repealed.                                             
    1668.       Reporting duties of Governor and transfer of functions
                 from government comptroller for American Samoa to
                 Inspector General, Department of the Interior.       
    1669.       Administration and enforcement of collection of
                 customs duties; employment and training of residents.
    1670.       Industrial development bonds.                         

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1661                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1661. Islands of eastern Samoa

-STATUTE-
    (a) Ceded to and accepted by United States
      The cessions by certain chiefs of the islands of Tutuila and
    Manua and certain other islands of the Samoan group lying between
    the thirteenth and fifteenth degrees of latitude south of the
    Equator and between the one hundred and sixty-seventh and one
    hundred and seventy-first degrees of longitude west of Greenwich,
    herein referred to as the islands of eastern Samoa, are accepted,
    ratified, and confirmed, as of April 10, 1900, and July 16, 1904,
    respectively.
    (b) Public land laws; revenue
      The existing laws of the United States relative to public lands
    shall not apply to such lands in the said islands of eastern Samoa;
    but the Congress of the United States shall enact special laws for
    their management and disposition: Provided, That all revenue from
    or proceeds of the same, except as regards such part thereof as may
    be used or occupied for the civil, military, or naval purposes of
    the United States or may be assigned for the use of the local
    government, shall be used solely for the benefit of the inhabitants
    of the said islands of eastern Samoa for educational and other
    public purposes.
    (c) Government
      Until Congress shall provide for the government of such islands,
    all civil, judicial, and military powers shall be vested in such
    person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner as the
    President of the United States shall direct; and the President
    shall have power to remove said officers and fill the vacancies so
    occasioned.

-SOURCE-
    (Feb. 20, 1929, ch. 281, 45 Stat. 1253; May 22, 1929, ch. 6, 46
    Stat. 4.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The existing laws of the United States relative to public lands,
    referred to in subsec. (b), are classified generally to Title 43,
    Public Lands.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Subsec. (d) of this section, which provided for recommendation of
    legislation concerning the islands of eastern Samoa by seven
    commissioners as soon as reasonably practicable, was omitted from
    the Code.
      Section was formerly classified to section 1431a of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1929 - Subsec. (d). Act May 22, 1929, substituted "seven" and
    "three" for "six" and "two", respectively, and inserted "or high
    chiefs" after "chiefs".

    AUTHORITY OF GUAM, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
                           TO ENACT REVENUE LAWS
      See section 1271 of Pub. L. 99-514, set out as a note under
    section 931 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of American
    Samoa, see section 1701 et seq. of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1662                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1662. Sovereignty of United States extended over Swains Island

-STATUTE-
      The sovereignty of the United States over American Samoa is
    extended over Swains Island, which is made a part of American Samoa
    and placed under the jurisdiction of the administrative and
    judicial authorities of the government established therein by the
    United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Mar. 4, 1925, ch. 563, 43 Stat. 1357.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1431 of this title.


-MISC1-
       TRANSFER OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TO GOVERNMENT OF AMERICAN SAMOA   
      Pub. L. 96-597, title I, Sec. 101, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3477,
    provided that: "Notwithstanding any other provision of law and
    subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest of
    the Government of the United States in personal property situated
    in American Samoa shall be transferred, without reimbursement, to
    the American Samoa government on October 1, 1981, unless the agency
    of the Government of the United States having administrative
    responsibility for the property advises the Secretary of the
    Interior in writing before the date of transfer that it has a
    continuing requirement for such property."

       TRANSFER OF CERTAIN PROPERTY TO GOVERNMENT OF AMERICAN SAMOA   
      Pub. L. 87-158, Aug. 17, 1961, 75 Stat. 392, authorized the
    Secretary of the Navy to transfer, without reimbursement or
    transfer of funds, to the government of American Samoa, within
    ninety days after August 17, 1961, title to all property, real and
    personal, located in American Samoa on that date which was owned by
    the United States and was within the administrative supervision of
    the Department of the Navy on such date.

                 SUBMERGED LANDS, CONVEYANCE TO TERRITORY             
      Conveyance of submerged lands to the government of American
    Samoa, see section 1701 et seq. of this title.


-EXEC-
     EX. ORD. NO. 10264. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATION OF AMERICAN SAMOA 
      Ex. Ord. No. 10264, eff. June 29, 1951, 16 F.R. 6419, provided:
      1. The administration of American Samoa is hereby transferred
    from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of the Interior,
    such transfer to become effective on July 1, 1951.
      2. The Department of the Navy and the Department of the Interior
    shall proceed with the plans for the transfer of administration of
    American Samoa as embodied in the above-mentioned memorandum of
    understanding between the two departments.
      3. When the transfer of administration made by this order becomes
    effective, the Secretary of the Interior shall take such action as
    may be necessary and appropriate, and in harmony with applicable
    law, for the administration of civil government in American Samoa.
      4. The executive departments and agencies of the Government are
    authorized and directed to cooperate with the Departments of the
    Navy and Interior in the effectuation of the provisions of this
    order.
      5. The said Executive order of February 19, 1900 [Ex. Ord. 125-
    A], is revoked, effective July 1, 1951.
                                                         Harry S Truman.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1662a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1662a. Amendment of constitution of American Samoa

-STATUTE-
      Amendments of, or modifications to, the constitution of American
    Samoa, as approved by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to
    Executive Order 10264 as in effect January 1, 1983, may be made
    only by Act of Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 12, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1462.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Executive Order 10264, referred to in text, is set out under
    section 1662 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1663                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1663. Acknowledgment of deeds

-STATUTE-
      Deeds and other instruments affecting land situate in the
    District of Columbia or any Territory of the United States may be
    acknowledged in the islands of Guam and Samoa or in the Canal Zone
    before any notary public or judge, appointed therein by proper
    authority, or by any officer therein who has ex officio the powers
    of a notary public: Provided, That the certificate by such notary
    in Guam, Samoa, or the Canal Zone, as the case may be, shall be
    accompanied by the certificate of the governor or acting governor
    of such place to the effect that the notary taking said
    acknowledgment was in fact the officer he purported to be; and any
    deeds or other instruments affecting lands so situate, so
    acknowledged since the first day of January, 1905, and accompanied
    by such certificate shall have the same effect as such deeds or
    other instruments hereafter so acknowledged and certified.

-SOURCE-
    (June 28, 1906, ch. 3585, 34 Stat. 552.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      For definition of Canal Zone, referred to in text, see section
    3602(b) of Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is also classified to section 1421f-1 of this title.
      Section was formerly classified to sections 1358 and 1432 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1664                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1664. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1664. Repealed. Pub. L. 109-304, Sec. 19, Oct. 6, 2006, 120
      Stat. 1710.
      Section, act June 14, 1934, ch. 523, 48 Stat. 963, made coastwise
    shipping laws of United States inapplicable to commerce between the
    islands of American Samoa or between those islands and other ports
    under the jurisdiction of the United States. See section 55101 of
    Title 46, Shipping.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1665                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1665. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Oct. 5, 1992, Pub. L. 102-381, title I, 106 Stat.
    1392, which authorized Territorial and local governments of
    American Samoa to make purchases through General Services
    Administration, was from the Department of the Interior and Related
    Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992, and was not repeated in
    subsequent appropriation acts. See section 1469e of this title.
    Similar provisions were contained in the following prior
    appropriation acts:
      Nov. 13, 1991, Pub. L. 102-154, title I, 105 Stat. 1007.
      Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101-512, title I, 104 Stat. 1932.
      Oct. 23, 1989, Pub. L. 101-121, title I, 103 Stat. 716.
      Sept. 27, 1988, Pub. L. 100-446, title I, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Dec. 22, 1987, Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-231.
      Oct. 18, 1986, Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Oct. 30, 1986, Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h)
    [title I], 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-258.
      Dec. 19, 1985, Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], 99 Stat.
    1224, 1238.
      Oct. 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat. 931.
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1401.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 965.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1052.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 987.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 812.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 433.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 512.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 151.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 430.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 339.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 250.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 112.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 163.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 265.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 265.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.
      July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.
      July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66 Stat. 457.
      Aug. 31, 1951, ch. 375, title I, 65 Stat. 263.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1666                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1666. Extension of scientific, technical, and other
      assistance; grant-in-aid program restriction; limitations on
      expenditures

-STATUTE-
      Upon request of the Secretary of the Interior - 
        (a) the head of any Federal department, agency, or corporation
      may, notwithstanding any other provision of law, extend to
      American Samoa, without reimbursement, such scientific,
      technical, and other assistance under any program which it
      administers as, in the judgment of the Secretary of the Interior,
      will promote the welfare of American Samoa. The provisions of the
      preceding sentence shall not apply to financial assistance under
      any grant-in-aid program. The Secretary of the Interior shall not
      request assistance pursuant to this subsection which will involve
      nonreimbursable costs as estimated for him in advance by the
      heads of the departments, agencies, and corporations concerned in
      excess of an aggregate of $150,000 in any one fiscal year;
        (b) the Secretary of Agriculture may extend to American Samoa
      the benefits of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act,
      as amended [42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.]; and
        (c) the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare may extend
      to American Samoa the benefits of the Vocational Education Act of
      1946, the Hospital Survey and Construction Act [42 U.S.C. 291 et
      seq.], and section 246 of title 42, all as amended.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 87-688, Sec. 1, Sept. 25, 1962, 76 Stat. 586; Pub. L. 104-
    208, div. A, title I, Sec. 101(e) [title VII, Sec. 709(a)(7)],
    Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009-233, 3009-312; Pub. L. 106-78, title
    VII, Sec. 752(b)(18), Oct. 22, 1999, 113 Stat. 1170.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended,
    referred to in subsec. (b), is act June 4, 1946, ch. 281, 60 Stat.
    230, as amended, which is classified generally to chapter 13 (Sec.
    1751 et seq.) of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1751 of Title 42 and Tables.
      The Vocational Education Act of 1946, referred to in subsec. (c),
    is act June 8, 1936, ch. 541, 49 Stat. 1488, as amended, which was
    classified to sections 15h to 15q, 15aa to 15jj, and 15aaa to 15ggg
    of Title 20, Education, and was repealed by section 103 of Pub. L.
    90-576, title I, Oct. 16, 1968, 82 Stat. 1091. See section 2301 et
    seq. of Title 20.
      The Hospital Survey and Construction Act, referred to in subsec.
    (c), is act Aug. 13, 1946, ch. 958, 60 Stat. 1041, as amended,
    which added a title VI to the Public Health Service Act, and was
    classified to subchapter IV (Sec. 291 et seq.) of chapter 6A of
    Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. Such title VI was amended
    generally by Pub. L. 88-443, Sec. 3(a) Aug. 18, 1964, 78 Stat. 447.
    For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1999 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 106-78 substituted "Richard B.
    Russell National School Lunch Act" for "National School Lunch Act".
      1996 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 104-208 struck out "the Library
    Services Act," after "the Vocational Education Act of 1946,".


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      For transfer of functions and offices (relating to education) of
    Secretary and Department of Health, Education, and Welfare to
    Secretary and Department of Education, and termination of certain
    offices and positions and redesignation of Secretary of Health,
    Education, and Welfare as Secretary of Health and Human Services,
    see sections 3441, 3503, and 3508 of Title 20, Education.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1667                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1667. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1667. Repealed. Pub. L. 90-576, title I, Sec. 103, Oct. 16,
      1968, 82 Stat. 1091.
      Section, Pub. L. 87-688, Sec. 2, Sept. 25, 1962, 76 Stat. 586,
    extended to American Samoa the benefits of the Vocational Education
    Act of 1946 and authorized an annual appropriation of $80,000
    therefor.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Section 103 of Pub. L. 90-576 provided that repeal of this
    section is effective July 1, 1969.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1668                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1668. Reporting duties of Governor and transfer of functions
      from government comptroller for American Samoa to Inspector
      General, Department of the Interior

-STATUTE-
    (a) Comprehensive annual financial report; contents; other reports
      The Governor of American Samoa shall prepare, publish, and submit
    to the Congress and the Secretary of the Interior a comprehensive
    annual financial report in conformance with the standards of the
    National Council on Governmental Accounting within one hundred and
    twenty days after the close of the fiscal year. The comprehensive
    annual financial report shall include statistical data as set forth
    in the standards of the National Council of Governmental Accounting
    relating to the physical, economic, social, and political
    characteristics of the government, and any other information
    required by the Congress. The Governor shall also make such other
    reports at such other times as may be required by the Congress or
    under applicable Federal law.
    (b) Functions, powers, and duties transferred
      The following functions, powers, and duties heretofore vested in
    the government comptroller for American Samoa are hereby
    transferred to the Inspector General, Department of the Interior,
    for the purpose of establishing an organization which will maintain
    a satisfactory level of independent audit oversight of the
    government of American Samoa:
        (1) The authority to audit all accounts pertaining to the
      revenue and receipts of the government of American Samoa, and of
      funds derived from bond issues, and the authority to audit, in
      accordance with law and administrative regulations, all
      expenditures of funds and property pertaining to the government
      of American Samoa including those pertaining to trust funds held
      by the government of American Samoa.
        (2) The authority to report to the Secretary of the Interior
      and the Governor of American Samoa all failures to collect
      amounts due the government, and expenditures of funds or uses or
      property which are irregular or not pursuant to law.
    (c) Scope of authority transferred
      The authority granted in paragraph (b) of this section shall
    extend to all activities of the government of American Samoa, and
    shall be in addition to the authority conferred upon the Inspector
    General by the Inspector General Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 1101), as
    amended.
    (d) Transfer of personnel, assets, etc., of office of government
      comptroller for American Samoa to Office of Inspector General,
      Department of the Interior
      In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the
    personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and
    unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations,
    and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available or to
    be made available, of the office of the government comptroller for
    American Samoa relating to its audit function are hereby
    transferred to the Office of Inspector General, Department of the
    Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title V, Sec. 501, as added Pub. L. 97-357, title
    IV, Sec. 402, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1711; amended Pub. L. 105-
    362, title IX, Sec. 901(o), Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3291.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (c), is
    Pub. L. 95-452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, as amended, which is
    set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and
    Employees.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      A prior section 1668, Pub. L. 96-205, title V, Sec. 501, Mar. 12,
    1980, 94 Stat. 90, mandated payment of salary and expenses of the
    government comptroller for American Samoa from funds appropriated
    to the Department of the Interior, prior to repeal by Pub. L. 97-
    357, Sec. 402.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 105-362 struck out "The Governor
    shall transmit the comprehensive annual financial report to the
    Inspector General of the Department of the Interior who shall audit
    it and report his findings to the Congress." after "other
    information required by the Congress." and "He shall also submit to
    the Congress, the Secretary of the Interior, and the cognizant
    Federal auditors a written statement of actions taken or
    contemplated on Federal audit recommendations within sixty days
    after the issuance date of the audit report." after "under
    applicable Federal law."

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in the 1st
    sentence of subsec. (a) of this section relating to the requirement
    that the Governor submit a comprehensive annual financial report to
    Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended, set out
    as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and
    the 14th item on page 115 of House Document No. 103-7.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1669                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1669. Administration and enforcement of collection of customs
      duties; employment and training of residents

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary of the Treasury shall, upon the request of the
    Governor of American Samoa, administer and enforce the collection
    of all customs duties derived from American Samoa, without cost to
    the government of American Samoa. The Secretary of the Treasury, in
    consultation with the Governor of American Samoa, shall make every
    effort to employ and train the residents of American Samoa to carry
    out the provisions of this section. The administration and
    enforcement of this section shall commence October 1, 1980.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title V, Sec. 502, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 90.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1670                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 13 - EASTERN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1670. Industrial development bonds

-STATUTE-
    (a) Issuance
      The legislature of the government of American Samoa may cause to
    be issued after September 20, 1984, industrial development bonds
    (within the meaning of section 103(b)(2) (!1) of title 26).

    (b) Exemption of all bonds from income taxation by State and local
      governments
      (1) In general
        The interest on any bond or other obligation issued by or on
      behalf of the Government of American Samoa shall be exempt from
      taxation by the Government of American Samoa and the governments
      of any of the several States, the District of Columbia, any
      territory or possession of the United States, and any subdivision
      thereof.
      (2) Exemption applicable only to income taxes
        The exemption provided by paragraph (1) shall not apply to
      gift, estate, inheritance, legacy, succession, or other wealth
      transfer taxes.
    (c) Cross reference
      For exclusion of interest for purposes of Federal income
    taxation, see section 103 of title 26.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 98-454, title II, Sec. 202, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1733;
    Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095; Pub. L. 108-
    326, Sec. 1(a), Oct. 16, 2004, 118 Stat. 1270.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 103, referred to in subsec. (a), which related to
    interest on certain governmental obligations was amended generally
    by Pub. L. 99-514, title XIII, Sec. 1301(a), Oct. 22, 1986, 100
    Stat. 2602, and as so amended relates to interest on State and
    local bonds. Section 103(b)(2), which prior to the general
    amendment defined industrial development bond, relates to the
    applicability of the interest exclusion to arbitrage bonds.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 108-326 amended heading and text
    generally, substituting provisions relating to exemption of all
    bonds from income taxation by State and local governments for
    provisions relating to exemption from taxation and definition of
    State.
      1986 - Subsecs. (a), (c). Pub. L. 99-514 substituted "Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986" for "Internal Revenue Code of 1954", which
    for purposes of codification was translated as "title 26" thus
    requiring no change in text.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2004 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 108-326, Sec. 2, Oct. 16, 2004, 118 Stat. 1270, provided
    that: "This Act [amending this section] shall apply to obligations
    issued after the date of the enactment of this Act [Oct. 16,
    2004]."

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC
           ISLANDS                                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
            CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS        

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1681.       Continuance of civil government for Trust Territory of
                 the Pacific Islands; assistance programs; maximum
                 fiscal year costs; reimbursement.                    
    1681a.      Appointment of High Commissioner.                     
    1681b.      Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
                 Guam to Inspector General, Department of the
                 Interior.                                            
    1681c, 1682. Repealed or Omitted.                                 
    1683.       Auditing of transactions of Trust Territory of the
                 Pacific Islands.                                     
    1684.       Expenditure of funds for administration of Trust
                 Territory of the Pacific Islands.                    
    1685.       Transfer of property or money for administration of
                 Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.              
    1686, 1687. Omitted.                                              
    1688.       Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Economic
                 Development Loan Fund.                               
    1689.       Plan for use of grant to Trust Territory of the
                 Pacific Islands Economic Development Loan Fund;
                 loans; terms.                                        
    1690.       Loans from Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
                 Economic Loan Fund; restrictions; guarantees.        
    1691.       Fiscal control and accounting procedures for plan for
                 use of grant.                                        
    1692.       Comprehensive annual financial report by chief
                 executives of governments of the Marshall Islands,
                 Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Northern
                 Mariana Islands; contents; other reports.            
    1693.       Audit of government; access to books, records, etc.   
    1694 to 1694e. Transferred.                                       
    1695.       Federal education and health care programs;
                 nonapplicability or nonparticipation.                


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      The Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, which included the
    Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    Marshall Islands, and Palau, terminated. The Trusteeship Agreement
    terminated with respect to the Republic of the Marshall Islands on
    Oct. 21, 1986, with respect to the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands on Nov. 3,
    1986, and with respect to the Republic of Palau on Oct. 1, 1994.
    See Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out as a note
    under section 1801 of this title, and Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27,
    1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set out as a note under section 1931 of this
    title.
      For provisions relating to the Northern Mariana Islands, formerly
    set out as notes under section 1681 of this title, see chapter 17
    (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of this title. For provisions relating to the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau,
    formerly set out as notes under section 1681 of this title, see
    chapter 18 (Sec. 1901 et seq.) of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1681                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1681. Continuance of civil government for Trust Territory of
      the Pacific Islands; assistance programs; maximum fiscal year
      costs; reimbursement

-STATUTE-
      (a) Until Congress shall further provide for the government of
    the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, all executive,
    legislative, and judicial authority necessary for the civil
    administration of the Trust Territory shall continue to be vested
    in such person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner and
    through such agency or agencies as the President of the United
    States may direct or authorize.
      (b) The head of any department, corporation, or other agency of
    the executive branch of the Government may, upon the request of the
    Secretary of the Interior, extend to the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands, with or without reimbursement, scientific,
    technical, and other assistance under any program administered by
    such agency, or extend to the Trust Territory any Federal program
    administered by such agency, if the assistance or program will
    promote the welfare of the Trust Territory, notwithstanding any
    provision of law under which the Trust Territory may otherwise be
    ineligible for the assistance or program: Provided, That the
    Secretary of the Interior shall not request assistance pursuant to
    this subsection that involves, in the aggregate, an estimated
    nonreimbursable cost in any one fiscal year in excess of $150,000:
    Provided further, That the cost of any program extended to the
    Trust Territory under this subsection shall be reimbursable out of
    appropriations authorized and made for the government of the Trust
    Territory pursuant to section 2 of this Act, as amended. The
    provisions of this subsection shall not apply to financial
    assistance under a grant-in-aid program.

-SOURCE-
    (June 30, 1954, ch. 423, Sec. 1, 68 Stat. 330; Pub. L. 88-487, Sec.
    1, Aug. 22, 1964, 78 Stat. 601.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 2 of this Act, as amended, referred to in subsec. (b),
    means section 2 of act June 30, 1954, set out as a note below.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1435 of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1964 - Pub. L. 88-487 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a) and added subsec. (b).

                             NOTES TRANSFERRED                         
      For provisions relating to the Northern Mariana Islands, formerly
    set out as notes under this section, see chapter 17 (Sec. 1801 et
    seq.) of this title. For provisions relating to the Federated
    States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau, formerly set
    out as notes under this section, see chapter 18 (Sec. 1901 et seq.)
    of this title.

                            SIMILAR PROVISIONS                        
      Similar provisions continuing the civil government for the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands until June 30, 1954, were
    contained in act Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 383, Secs. 1, 2, 67 Stat. 494,
    495.

                      AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS                  
      Pub. L. 87-541, July 19, 1962, 76 Stat. 171, provided in part
    that not more than $15,000,000 be authorized to be appropriated for
    the fiscal year 1963.
      Section 2 of act June 30, 1954, as amended July 19, 1962, Pub. L.
    87-541, 76 Stat. 171; May 10, 1967, Pub. L. 90-16, Sec. 1, 81 Stat.
    15; Oct. 21, 1968, Pub. L. 90-617, Sec. 1, 82 Stat. 1213; Dec. 24,
    1970, Pub. L. 91-578, 84 Stat. 1559; Sept. 21, 1973, Pub. L. 93-
    111, Sec. 1, 87 Stat. 354; May 28, 1975, Pub. L. 94-27, Sec. 1, 89
    Stat. 95; Apr. 1, 1976, Pub. L. 94-255, Sec. 1, 90 Stat. 299; Oct.
    15, 1977, Pub. L. 95-134, title I, Sec. 101, 91 Stat. 1159; Mar.
    12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-205, title I, Sec. 101, 94 Stat. 84; Dec. 24,
    1980, Pub. L. 96-597, title IV, Sec. 401, 94 Stat. 3478, provided
    that: "There are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed
    $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1967, for fiscal year 1975, $75,000,000
    for fiscal year 1976, $80,000,000; for the period beginning July 1,
    1976, and ending September 30, 1976, $15,100,000; for fiscal year
    1977, $80,000,000; and such amounts as were authorized but not
    appropriated for fiscal years 1975, 1976, and 1977; for fiscal year
    1978, $90,000,000; for fiscal year 1979, $122,700,000; for fiscal
    year 1980, $112,000,000; for fiscal years after fiscal year 1980,
    such sums as may be necessary, including, but not limited to, sums
    needed for completion of the capital improvement program; for a
    basic communications system; for a feasibility study and
    construction of a hydroelectric project on Ponape; for expenditure
    by grant or contract for the installation, operation, and
    maintenance of communications systems which will provide internal
    and external communications; and up to but not to exceed $8,000,000
    for the construction of such buildings as are required for a four-
    year college to serve the Micronesian community (no appropriations
    for the construction of such buildings shall, however, be made (A)
    until, but not later than one year after the date of the enactment
    of this Act [Apr. 1, 1976], the President causes a study to be made
    by an appropriate authority to determine the educational need and
    the most suitable educational concept for such a college and
    transmits such study, together with his recommendations, to the
    Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs of the Senate and House
    of Representatives of the United States within said one year period
    and (B) until 90 calendar days after the receipt of such study and
    recommendations which shall be deemed approved unless specifically
    disapproved by resolution of either such committee), and $1,800,000
    for a human development project in the Marshall Islands plus such
    sums as are necessary, for each of such fiscal years, or periods,
    to offset reductions in, or the termination of, Federal grant-in-
    aid programs or other funds made available to the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands by other Federal agencies, to remain
    available until expended, to carry out the provisions of this Act
    [this section] and to provide for a program of necessary capital
    improvements and public works related to health, education,
    utilities, highways, transportation facilities, communications, and
    public buildings: Provided, That except for funds appropriated for
    the activities of the Peace Corps no funds appropriated by any Act
    shall be used for administration of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands except as may be specifically authorized by law."

        INVENTORY AND STUDY OF MOST UNIQUE AND SIGNIFICANT NATURAL,
       HISTORICAL, ETC., RESOURCES OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC
                                  ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 97-357, title II, Sec. 205, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1708,
    directed Secretary of the Interior to conduct a comprehensive
    inventory and study of the most unique and significant natural,
    historical, cultural and recreational resources of Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands with objective of preservation of their
    values and their careful use and appreciation by the public, along
    with a determination of their potential for attracting tourism,
    further provided that such inventory and study was to be conducted
    in full cooperation and consultation with affected governmental
    officials and the interested public, and was to identify areas or
    sites which qualified to be listed on Registry of Natural Landmarks
    and National Register of Historic Places, and further provided that
    a full report on such inventory and study was to be transmitted to
    the respectively involved governments and Congress no later than
    two complete calendar years after Oct. 19, 1982.

    ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMANENT LOCATION FOR DISPLACED PEOPLE OF BIKINI
               ISLAND; PROGRESS REPORT TO CONGRESS; CONTENTS
      Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 2(c), Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 488, directed
    Secretary of the Interior to prepare and submit to Congress by July
    1, 1979, a progress report on efforts to establish a permanent
    location for displaced people of Bikini Island.

                              DISASTER RELIEF                          
      Section 3 of act June 30, 1954, ch. 423, as added Pub. L. 90-617,
    Sec. 2, Oct. 21, 1968, 82 Stat. 1213, and amended Pub. L. 91-606,
    title III, Sec. 301(k), Dec. 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 1759; Pub. L. 93-
    288, title VII, Sec. 702(k), formerly title VI, Sec. 602(k), May
    22, 1974, 88 Stat. 164, renumbered Pub. L. 103-337, div. C, title
    XXXIV, Sec. 3411(a)(1), (2), Oct. 5, 1994, 108 Stat. 3100; Pub. L.
    100-707, title I, Sec. 109(w), Nov. 23, 1988, 102 Stat. 4710,
    provided that: "There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such
    sums as the Secretary of the Interior may find necessary, but not
    to exceed $10,000,000 for any one year, to alleviate suffering and
    damage resulting from major disasters that occur in the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands. Such sums shall be in addition to
    those authorized in section 2 of this Act [set out as a note above]
    and shall not be subject to the limitations imposed by section 2 of
    this Act. The Secretary of the Interior shall determine whether or
    not a major disaster has occurred in accordance with the principles
    and policies of sections 102(2) and 401 of the [Robert T. Stafford]
    Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act [42 U.S.C. 5122(2),
    5170]."

                   ISLAND TRADING COMPANY OF MICRONESIA               
      Act Aug. 8, 1953, ch. 383, Sec. 3, 67 Stat. 495, provided that
    notwithstanding the provisions of the Interior Department
    Appropriation Act, 1953 (Pub. L. 470, ch. 597, 66 Stat. 445), the
    Island Trading Company of Micronesia not have succession after Dec.
    31, 1954.

    AUTHORIZING APPROVAL OF TRUSTEESHIP AGREEMENT FOR THE TERRITORY OF
                            THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
      Act July 18, 1947, ch. 271, 61 Stat. 397, authorized President to
    approve, on behalf of the United States, the trusteeship agreement
    between the United States and the Security Council of the United
    Nations for the former Japanese mandated islands (to be known as
    the Territory of the Pacific Islands) which was approved by the
    Security Council on Apr. 2, 1947.


-EXEC-
                         EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 10265                     
      Ex. Ord. No. 10265, eff. June 29, 1951, 16 F.R. 6419, which
    related to transfer of administration of Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands, was superseded by Ex. Ord. No. 11021, eff. May 8,
    1962, 27 F.R. 4409, formerly set out below.

                         EXECUTIVE ORDER NO. 11021                     
      Ex. Ord. No. 11021, eff. May 7, 1962, 27 F.R. 4409, as amended by
    Ex. Ord. No. 11944, eff. Oct. 25, 1976, 41 F.R. 47215, which
    related to administration of Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, was superseded by Ex. Ord. No. 12569, Oct. 16, 1986, 51
    F.R. 37171, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1681a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1681a. Appointment of High Commissioner

-STATUTE-
      Any appointment made on or after May 10, 1967, to the office of
    the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
    shall be made by the President by and with the advice and consent
    of the Senate.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 90-16, Sec. 2, May 10, 1967, 81 Stat. 15.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1681b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1681b. Transfer of functions from government comptroller for
      Guam to Inspector General, Department of the Interior

-STATUTE-
    (a) Functions, powers, and duties transferred
      The following functions, powers, and duties heretofore vested in
    the government comptroller for Guam with respect to the government
    of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands are hereby transferred to the
    Inspector General, Department of the Interior, for the purpose of
    establishing an organization which will maintain a satisfactory
    level of independent audit oversight of the governments of the
    Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and
    the Northern Mariana Islands:
        (1) The authority to audit all accounts pertaining to the
      revenue and receipts of the governments of the Marshall Islands,
      the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern
      Mariana Islands, and of funds derived from bond issues, and the
      authority to audit, in accordance with law and administrative
      regulations, all expenditures of funds and property pertaining to
      the aforementioned governments including those pertaining to
      trust funds held by such governments.
        (2) The authority to report to the Secretary of the Interior,
      the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, the chief executives of the governments of the Marshall
      Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the
      Northern Mariana Islands all failures to collect amounts due the
      governments, and expenditures of funds or uses of property which
      are irregular or not pursuant to law.
    (b) Scope of authority transferred
      The authority granted in paragraph (a) of this section shall
    extend to all activities of the governments of the Marshall
    Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the
    Northern Mariana Islands, and shall be in addition to the authority
    conferred upon the Inspector General by the Inspector General Act
    of 1978 (92 Stat. 1101), as amended. This section is not subject to
    termination under section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America (90 Stat. 263, 268).
    (c) Transfer of personnel, assets, etc., of office of government
      comptroller for Guam to Office of Inspector General, Department
      of the Interior
      In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the
    personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and
    unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations,
    and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available or to
    be made available, of the office of the government comptroller for
    Guam related to its audit function, with respect to the government
    of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands are hereby transferred to the Office
    of Inspector General, Department of the Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (June 30, 1954, ch. 423, Sec. 4, as added Pub. L. 97-357, title II,
    Sec. 203(b), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1707.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Inspector General Act of 1978, referred to in subsec. (b), is
    Pub. L. 95-452, Oct. 12, 1978, 92 Stat. 1101, as amended, which is
    set out in the Appendix to Title 5, Government Organization and
    Employees.
      Section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of
    the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United
    States of America, referred to in subsec. (b), is contained in
    section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801
    of this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      A prior section 1681b, acts June 30, 1954, ch. 423, Sec. 4, as
    added Sept. 21, 1973, Pub. L. 93-111, Sec. 2, 87 Stat. 354; amended
    Oct. 15, 1977, Pub. L. 95-134, title II, Sec. 203(b), 91 Stat.
    1162; Mar. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-205, title II, Sec. 201(b), 94
    Stat. 85, related to duties of government comptroller for Guam in
    addition to those imposed by Organic Act of Guam, prior to repeal
    by Pub. L. 97-357, Sec. 203(b).

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1681c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1681c. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Sec. 1681c. Repealed. Pub. L. 97-357, title II, Sec. 203(d), Oct.
      19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1708.
      Section, Pub. L. 96-205, title II, Sec. 201(a), Mar. 12, 1980, 94
    Stat. 85, related to the payment of the salary and expenses of the
    government comptroller for the Northern Mariana Islands from funds
    appropriated to the Department of the Interior.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1682                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1682. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section, act Oct. 5, 1992, Pub. L. 102-381, title I, 106 Stat.
    1393, which authorized government of Trust Territory of Pacific
    Islands to make purchases through General Services Administration,
    was from the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies
    Appropriations Act, 1992, and was not repeated in subsequent
    appropriation acts. See section 1469e of this title. Similar
    provisions were contained in the following prior appropriation
    acts:
      Nov. 13, 1991, Pub. L. 102-154, title I, 105 Stat. 1008.
      Nov. 5, 1990, Pub. L. 101-512, title I, 104 Stat. 1933.
      Oct. 23, 1989, Pub. L. 101-121, title I, 103 Stat. 717.
      Sept. 27, 1988, Pub. L. 100-446, title I, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Dec. 22, 1987, Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-232.
      Oct. 18, 1986, Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Oct. 30, 1986, Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h)
    [title I], 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-259.
      Dec. 19, 1985, Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], 99 Stat.
    1224, 1239.
      Oct. 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat. 932.
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1402.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 966.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1053.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 988.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 813.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 434.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 513.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 152.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 430.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 340.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 251.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 112.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 164.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 266.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 265.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.
      July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.
      July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66 Stat. 458.
      Aug. 31, 1951, ch. 375, title I, 65 Stat. 263.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1683                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1683. Auditing of transactions of Trust Territory of the
      Pacific Islands

-STATUTE-
      All financial transactions of the Trust Territory, including such
    transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities established or
    utilized by such Trust Territory, may be audited by the Government
    Accountability Office, at its discretion, in accordance with
    chapter 35 of title 31.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 103-332, title I, Sept. 30, 1994, 108 Stat. 2516; Pub. L.
    108-271, Sec. 8(b), July 7, 2004, 118 Stat. 814.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section is from the appropriation act cited as the credit to this
    section.
      Section was formerly classified to section 1436 of this title.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Similar provisions were contained in the following prior
    appropriation acts:
      Pub. L. 103-138, title I, Nov. 11, 1993, 107 Stat. 1395.
      Pub. L. 102-381, title I, Oct. 5, 1992, 106 Stat. 1393.
      Pub. L. 102-154, title I, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 1008.
      Pub. L. 101-512, title I, Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1933.
      Pub. L. 101-121, title I, Oct. 23, 1989, 103 Stat. 717.
      Pub. L. 100-446, title I, Sept. 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 1797.
      Pub. L. 100-202, Sec. 101(g) [title I], Dec. 22, 1987, 101 Stat.
    1329-213, 1329-232.
      Pub. L. 99-500, Sec. 101(h) [title I], Oct. 18, 1986, 100 Stat.
    1783-242, 1783-258, and Pub. L. 99-591, Sec. 101(h) [title I], Oct.
    30, 1986, 100 Stat. 3341-242, 3341-259.
      Pub. L. 99-190, Sec. 101(d) [title I], Dec. 19, 1985, 99 Stat.
    1224, 1239.
      Pub. L. 98-473, title I, Sec. 101(c) [title I], Oct. 12, 1984, 98
    Stat. 1837, 1851.
      Pub. L. 98-146, title I, Nov. 4, 1983, 97 Stat. 932.
      Pub. L. 97-394, title I, Dec. 30, 1982, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Pub. L. 97-100, title I, Dec. 23, 1981, 95 Stat. 1402.
      Pub. L. 96-514, title I, Dec. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Pub. L. 96-126, title I, Nov. 27, 1979, 93 Stat. 966.
      Pub. L. 95-465, title I, Oct. 17, 1978, 92 Stat. 1289.
      Pub. L. 95-74, title I, July 26, 1977, 91 Stat. 295.
      Pub. L. 94-373, title I, July 31, 1976, 90 Stat. 1053.
      Pub. L. 94-165, title I, Dec. 23, 1975, 89 Stat. 988.
      Pub. L. 93-404, title I, Aug. 31, 1974, 88 Stat. 813.
      Pub. L. 93-120, title I, Oct. 4, 1973, 87 Stat. 434.
      Pub. L. 92-369, title I, Aug. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 513.
      Pub. L. 92-76, title I, Aug. 10, 1971, 85 Stat. 233.
      Pub. L. 91-361, title I, July 31, 1970, 84 Stat. 673.
      Pub. L. 91-98, title I, Oct. 29, 1969, 83 Stat. 151.
      Pub. L. 90-425, title I, July 26, 1968, 82 Stat. 430.
      Pub. L. 90-28, title I, June 24, 1967, 81 Stat. 63.
      Pub. L. 89-435, title I, May 31, 1966, 80 Stat. 174.
      Pub. L. 89-52, title I, June 28, 1965, 79 Stat. 179.
      Pub. L. 88-356, title I, July 7, 1964, 78 Stat. 278.
      Pub. L. 88-79, title I, July 26, 1963, 77 Stat. 102.
      Pub. L. 87-578, title I, Aug. 9, 1962, 76 Stat. 340.
      Pub. L. 87-122, title I, Aug. 3, 1961, 75 Stat. 251.
      Pub. L. 86-455, title I, May 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 112.
      Pub. L. 86-60, title I, June 23, 1959, 73 Stat. 101.
      Pub. L. 85-439, title I, June 4, 1958, 72 Stat. 164.
      Pub. L. 85-77, title I, July 1, 1957, 71 Stat. 266.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 265.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.
      July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.
      July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66 Stat. 458.

                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Pub. L. 108-271 substituted "Government Accountability
    Office" for "General Accounting Office".

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1684                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1684. Expenditure of funds for administration of Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands

-STATUTE-
      After June 30, 1954, no funds appropriated by any Act and no
    funds which are available or which may become available from any
    source whatever shall be used for administration of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, except as may be specifically
    authorized by law.

-SOURCE-
    (July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 273.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1437 of this title.
      Section is from the Interior Department Appropriation Act, 1954,
    act July 31, 1953.


-MISC1-
                             PRIOR PROVISIONS                         
      Similar provisions were contained in the Interior Department
    Appropriation Act, 1953, act July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, 66
    Stat. 458.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1685                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1685. Transfer of property or money for administration of
      Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

-STATUTE-
      After June 30, 1952, transfers to the Department of the Interior
    pursuant to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of
    1949 (!1) of equipment, material and supplies, excess to the needs
    of Federal agencies may be made at the request of the Secretary of
    the Interior without reimbursement or transfer of funds when
    required by the Interior Department for operations conducted in the
    administration of the Territories and the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands.


-SOURCE-
    (July 9, 1952, ch. 597, title I, Sec. 108, 66 Stat. 460.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949,
    referred to in text, is act June 30, 1949, ch. 288, 63 Stat. 377,
    as amended. Except for title III of the Act, which is classified
    generally to subchapter IV (Sec. 251 et seq.) of chapter 4 of Title
    41, Public Contracts, the Act was repealed and reenacted by Pub. L.
    107-217, Secs. 1, 6(b), Aug. 21, 2002, 116 Stat. 1062, 1304, as
    chapters 1 to 11 of Title 40, Public Buildings, Property, and
    Works.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1438 of this title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1686, 1687                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1686, 1687. Omitted

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section 1686, act July 31, 1953, ch. 298, title I, 67 Stat. 274,
    which prohibited new activity in the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands requiring expenditures of Federal funds without specific
    prior approval of Congress, was not repeated in subsequent
    appropriation acts. Section was formerly classified to section 1439
    of this title.
      Section 1687, act Nov. 4, 1983, Pub. L. 98-146, title I, 97 Stat.
    932, which provided that appropriations available for
    administration of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands could be
    expended for purchase, etc., of surface vessels for official
    expenses and for commercial transportation expenses, was from the
    Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriation Act,
    1984, and was not repeated in subsequent appropriation acts.
    Section was formerly classified to section 1440 of this title.
    Similar provisions were contained in the following prior
    appropriation acts:
      Dec. 30, 1982, Pub. L. 97-394, title I, 96 Stat. 1979.
      Dec. 23, 1981, Pub. L. 97-100, title I, 95 Stat. 1402.
      Dec. 12, 1980, Pub. L. 96-514, title I, 94 Stat. 2969.
      Nov. 27, 1979, Pub. L. 96-126, title I, 93 Stat. 966.
      Oct. 17, 1978, Pub. L. 95-465, title I, 92 Stat. 1289.
      July 26, 1977, Pub. L. 95-74, title I, 91 Stat. 295.
      July 31, 1976, Pub. L. 94-373, title I, 90 Stat. 1053.
      Dec. 23, 1975, Pub. L. 94-165, title I, 89 Stat. 988.
      Aug. 31, 1974, Pub. L. 93-404, title I, 88 Stat. 813.
      Oct. 4, 1973, Pub. L. 93-120, title I, 87 Stat. 434.
      Aug. 10, 1972, Pub. L. 92-369, title I, 86 Stat. 513.
      Aug. 10, 1971, Pub. L. 92-76, title I, 85 Stat. 233.
      July 31, 1970, Pub. L. 91-361, title I, 84 Stat. 673.
      Oct. 29, 1969, Pub. L. 91-98, title I, 83 Stat. 152.
      July 26, 1968, Pub. L. 90-425, title I, 82 Stat. 431.
      June 24, 1967, Pub. L. 90-28, title I, 81 Stat. 63.
      May 31, 1966, Pub. L. 89-435, title I, 80 Stat. 174.
      June 28, 1965, Pub. L. 89-52, title I, 79 Stat. 179.
      July 7, 1964, Pub. L. 88-356, title I, 78 Stat. 278.
      July 26, 1963, Pub. L. 88-79, title I, 77 Stat. 102.
      Aug. 9, 1962, Pub. L. 87-578, title I, 76 Stat. 340.
      Aug. 3, 1961, Pub. L. 87-122, title I, 75 Stat. 251.
      May 13, 1960, Pub. L. 86-455, title I, 74 Stat. 113.
      June 23, 1959, Pub. L. 86-60, title I, 73 Stat. 101.
      June 4, 1958, Pub. L. 85-439, title I, 72 Stat. 164.
      July 1, 1957, Pub. L. 85-77, title I, 71 Stat. 266.
      June 13, 1956, ch. 380, title I, 70 Stat. 265.
      June 16, 1955, ch. 147, title I, 69 Stat. 149.
      July 1, 1954, ch. 446, title I, 68 Stat. 372.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1688                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1688. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Economic
      Development Loan Fund

-STATUTE-
      For the purpose of promoting economic development in the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, there is authorized to be
    appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, for payment to the
    government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as a grant
    in accordance with the provisions of sections 1688 to 1693 of this
    title, an amount which when added to the development fund
    established pursuant to section 3 of the Act of August 22, 1964 (78
    Stat. 601), as augmented by subsequent Federal grants, will create
    a total fund of $5,000,000, which shall thereafter be known as the
    Trust Territory Economic Development Loan Fund.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 1, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 87.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 3 of the Act of August 22, 1964, referred to in text, is
    section 3 of act Aug. 22, 1964, Pub. L. 88-487, 78 Stat. 601, which
    is not classified to the Code.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1689                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1689. Plan for use of grant to Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands Economic Development Loan Fund; loans; terms

-STATUTE-
      The grant authorized by section 1688 of this title shall be made
    only after the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands has submitted to the Secretary of the Interior a plan for
    the use of the grant, and the plan has been approved by the
    Secretary. The plan shall provide among other things for a
    revolving fund to make loans or to guarantee loans to private
    enterprise. The term of any loan made pursuant to the plan shall
    not exceed twenty-five years.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 2, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 87.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1690                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1690. Loans from Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
      Economic Loan Fund; restrictions; guarantees

-STATUTE-
      No loan or loan guarantee shall be made under sections 1688 to
    1693 of this title to any applicant who does not satisfy the
    territorial administering agency that financing is otherwise
    unavailable on reasonable terms and conditions. No loan or loan
    guarantee shall exceed (1) the amount which can reasonably be
    expected to be repaid, (2) the minimum amount necessary to
    accomplish the purposes of sections 1688 to 1693 of this title, or
    25 per centum of the funds appropriated pursuant to section 1688 of
    this title. No loan guarantee shall guarantee more than 90 per
    centum of the outstanding amount of any loan, and the reserves
    maintained to guarantee the loan shall not be less than 25 per
    centum of the guarantee.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 3, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 87.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1691                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1691. Fiscal control and accounting procedures for plan for
      use of grant

-STATUTE-
      The plan provided for in section 1689 of this title shall set
    forth such fiscal control and accounting procedures as may be
    necessary to assure proper disbursement, repayment, and accounting
    for such funds.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 4, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 88.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1692                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1692. Comprehensive annual financial report by chief
      executives of governments of the Marshall Islands, Federated
      States of Micronesia, Palau, and Northern Mariana Islands;
      contents; other reports

-STATUTE-
      The chief executives of the governments of the Marshall Islands,
    the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana
    Islands shall prepare, publish, and submit to the Congress and the
    Secretary of the Interior a comprehensive annual financial report
    in conformance with the standards of the National Council on
    Governmental Accounting within one hundred and twenty days after
    the close of the fiscal year. The comprehensive annual financial
    report shall include statistical data as set forth in the standards
    of the National Council on Governmental Accounting relating to the
    physical, economic, social, and political characteristics of the
    government, and any other information required by the Congress. The
    chief executives shall also make such other reports at such other
    times as may be required by the Congress or under applicable
    Federal laws. This section is not subject to termination under
    section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of
    the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United
    States of America (90 Stat. 263, 268).

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 5, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 88; Pub. L. 97-
    357, title II, Sec. 203(a), Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1707; Pub. L.
    105-362, title IX, Sec. 901(p), Nov. 10, 1998, 112 Stat. 3291.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of
    the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United
    States of America, referred to in text, is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Pub. L. 105-362 struck out "The chief executives shall
    transmit the comprehensive annual financial report to the Inspector
    General of the Department of the Interior who shall audit it and
    report his findings to the Congress." after "required by the
    Congress." and "The chief executives shall submit to the Congress,
    the Secretary of the Interior, the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the cognizant Federal
    auditors a written statement of actions taken or contemplated on
    Federal audit recommendations within sixty days after the issuance
    date of the audit report." after "applicable Federal law."
      1982 - Pub. L. 97-357 substituted provisions relating to
    preparation, etc., by the chief executives of the governments of
    the Marshall Islands, etc., of a comprehensive annual financial
    report to be submitted to the Congress and the Secretary of the
    Interior and transmitted to the Inspector General of the Interior
    Department, preparation of other congressionally required reports,
    submission of a written statement of actions taken or contemplated
    on Federal audit recommendations, and prohibition of termination of
    this section under the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States,
    for provisions relating to an annual report by the High
    Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on the
    administration of sections 1688 to 1693 of this title.

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in the 1st
    sentence of this section relating to the requirement that the chief
    executives submit a comprehensive annual financial report to
    Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended, set out
    as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance, and
    the 1st item on page 116 of House Document No. 103-7.

       EXCEPTION TO REQUIREMENT THAT STATEMENT BE SUBMITTED TO HIGH
          COMMISSIONER OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
      Section 203(e) of Pub. L. 97-357 provided that: "Nothing in this
    section [adding section 1681b of this title, amending this section,
    and repealing section 1681c of this title] shall be construed as
    requiring the Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands to submit
    any statement or report to the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1693                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1693. Audit of government; access to books, records, etc.

-STATUTE-
      The Comptroller General of the United States, or any of his duly
    authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of
    audit and examination, to any relevant books, documents, papers, or
    records of the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-257, Sec. 6, Mar. 21, 1972, 86 Stat. 88.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1694 to 1694e                                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1694 to 1694e. Transferred

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Sections 1694 to 1694e, Pub. L. 95-157, Secs. 1-6, Nov. 8, 1977,
    91 Stat. 1265-1267; Pub. L. 98-454, title IX, Secs. 901-904, Oct.
    5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1744, 1745, which related to establishment of
    District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, original and
    appellate jurisdiction, procedural requirements, relations between
    courts of United States and courts of Northern Mariana Islands,
    effective date, and authorization of appropriations, were
    transferred to sections 1821 to 1826, respectively, of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1695                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 14 - TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1695. Federal education and health care programs;
      nonapplicability or nonparticipation

-STATUTE-
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except in cases in
    which the Federal program is terminated with respect to all
    recipients under the program, Federal programs in the fields of
    education and health care shall not cease to apply to the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government or
    governments, and shall continue to be available to the extent said
    territory or its successor or successors are eligible to
    participate in such programs. Participation in any applicable
    Federal programs in the fields of education and health care by the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government
    or governments shall not be denied, decreased or ended, either
    before or after the termination of the trusteeship, without the
    express approval of the United States Congress and shall continue
    at such levels as the Congress may provide in appropriation Acts.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title I, Sec. 104, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 85;
    Pub. L. 96-597, title IV, Sec. 403, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3479.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1980 - Pub. L. 96-597 substituted "and shall continue to be
    available to the extent said territory or its successor or
    successors are eligible to participate in such programs.
    Participation" for "nor shall participation", "governments shall
    not be denied" for "governments be denied" and inserted "and shall
    continue at such levels as the Congress may provide in
    appropriation Acts." after "United States Congress".

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO
           TERRITORIES                                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
         CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES     

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    1701 to 1703. Repealed.                                           
    1704.       Concurrent jurisdiction; exceptions for national
                 defense purposes.                                    
    1705.       Tidelands, submerged lands, or filled lands.          
    1706.       Reserved rights.                                      
    1707.       Payment of rents, royalties, and fees to local
                 government.                                          
    1708.       Discrimination prohibited in rights of access to, and
                 benefits from, conveyed lands.                       

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Secs. 1701 to 1703                                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1701 to 1703. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    Secs. 1701 to 1703. Repealed. Pub. L. 93-435, Sec. 5, Oct. 5, 1974,
      88 Stat. 1212.
      Section 1701, Pub. L. 88-183, Sec. 1, Nov. 20, 1963, 77 Stat.
    338, related to authority of Secretary of the Interior to transfer
    tidelands, submerged lands, and filled lands to governments of
    Guam, Virgin Islands, and American Samoa with certain restrictions
    and conditions. See section 1705 of this title.
      Section 1702, Pub. L. 88-183, Sec. 2, Nov. 20, 1963, 77 Stat.
    339, related to administrative responsibility of Secretary of the
    Interior for tidelands, submerged lands, and filled lands in
    adjacent to Guam, Virgin Islands, and American Samoa. See sections
    1705 to 1708 of this title.
      Section 1703, Pub. L. 88-183, Sec. 3, Nov. 20, 1963, 77 Stat.
    339, related to certain rights reserved for the United States for
    purposes of defense, navigation, flood control, commerce and
    international affairs. See section 1706 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1704                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1704. Concurrent jurisdiction; exceptions for national defense
      purposes

-STATUTE-
      (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the governments of the
    Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa, shall have concurrent
    civil and criminal jurisdiction with the United States with regard
    to property owned, reserved, or controlled by the United States in
    the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa respectively. A
    judgment of conviction or acquittal on the merits under the laws of
    Guam, the Virgin Islands, or American Samoa shall be a bar to any
    prosecution under the criminal laws of the United States for the
    same act or acts, and a judgment of conviction or acquittal on the
    merits under the laws of the United States shall be a bar to any
    prosecution under the laws of Guam, the Virgin Islands, or American
    Samoa for the same act or acts.
      (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this
    section, the President may from time to time exclude from the
    concurrent jurisdiction of the government of Guam persons found,
    acts performed, and offenses committed on the property of the
    United States which is under the control of the Secretary of
    Defense to such extent and in such circumstances as he finds
    required in the interest of the national defense.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 88-183, Sec. 4, Nov. 20, 1963, 77 Stat. 339; Pub. L. 99-
    396, Sec. 3, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 839.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The criminal laws of the United States, referred to in subsec.
    (a), are classified generally to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal
    Procedure.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1986 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 99-396 amended first sentence
    generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as follows:
    "Except as otherwise provided in this section, the governments of
    Guam, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa, as the case may be,
    shall have concurrent jurisdiction with the United States over
    parties found, acts performed, and offenses committed on property
    owned, reserved, or controlled by the United States in Guam, the
    Virgin Islands, and American Samoa."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1705                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1705. Tidelands, submerged lands, or filled lands

-STATUTE-
    (a) Conveyance to Guam, Virgin Islands, and American Samoa
      Subject to valid existing rights, all right, title, and interest
    of the United States in lands permanently or periodically covered
    by tidal waters up to but not above the line of mean high tide and
    seaward to a line three geographical miles distant from the
    coastlines of the territories of Guam, the Virgin Islands, and
    American Samoa, as heretofore or hereafter modified by accretion,
    erosion, and reliction, and in artificially made, filled in, or
    reclaimed lands which were formerly permanently or periodically
    covered by tidal waters, are hereby conveyed to the governments of
    Guam, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa, as the case may be,
    to be administered in trust for the benefit of the people thereof.
    (b) Retention of certain lands and mineral rights by United States
      There are excepted from the transfer made by subsection (a)
    hereof - 
        (i) all deposits of oil, gas, and other minerals, but the term
      "minerals" shall not include coral, sand, and gravel;
        (ii) all submerged lands adjacent to property owned by the
      United States above the line of mean high tide;
        (iii) all submerged lands adjacent to property above the line
      of mean high tide acquired by the United States by eminent domain
      proceedings, purchase, exchange, or gift, after October 5, 1974,
      as required for completion of the Department of the Navy Land
      Acquisition Project relative to the construction of the
      Ammunition Pier authorized by the Military Construction
      Authorization Act, 1971 (84 Stat. 1204), as amended by section
      201 of the Military Construction Act, 1973 (86 Stat. 1135);
        (iv) all submerged lands filled in, built up, or otherwise
      reclaimed by the United States, before October 5, 1974, for its
      own use;
        (v) all tracts or parcels of submerged land containing on any
      part thereof any structures or improvements constructed by the
      United States;
        (vi) all submerged lands that have heretofore been determined
      by the President or the Congress to be of such scientific,
      scenic, or historic character as to warrant preservation and
      administration under the provisions of sections 1, 2, 3, and 4 of
      title 16;
        (vii) all submerged lands designated by the President within
      one hundred and twenty days after October 5, 1974;
        (viii) all submerged lands that are within the administrative
      responsibility of any agency or department of the United States
      other than the Department of the Interior;
        (ix) all submerged lands lawfully acquired by persons other
      than the United States through purchase, gift, exchange, or
      otherwise;
        (x) all submerged lands within the Virgin Islands National Park
      established by sections 398 to 398b of title 16, including the
      lands described in sections 398c and 398d of title 16; and
        (xi) all submerged lands within the Buck Island Reef National
      Monument as described in Presidential Proclamation 3448 dated
      December 28, 1961.

    Upon request of the Governor of Guam, the Virgin Islands, or
    American Samoa, the Secretary of the Interior may, with or without
    reimbursement, and subject to the procedure specified in subsection
    (c) of this section convey all right, title, and interest of the
    United States in any of the lands described in clauses (ii), (iii),
    (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), or (viii) of this subsection to the
    government of Guam, the Virgin Islands, or American Samoa, as the
    case may be, with the concurrence of the agency having custody
    thereof.
    (c) Submittal to Congressional committees of proposals for
      conveyance of retained lands or rights
      No conveyance shall be made by the Secretary pursuant to
    subsection (a) or (b) of this section until the expiration of sixty
    calendar days (excluding days on which the House of Representatives
    or the Senate is not in session because of an adjournment of more
    than three days to a day certain) from the date on which the
    Secretary of the Interior submits to the Committee on Natural
    Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
    Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate an explanatory statement
    indicating the tract proposed to be conveyed and the need therefor,
    unless prior to the expiration of such sixty calendar days both
    committees inform the Secretary that they wish to take no action
    with respect to the proposed conveyance.
    (d) Oil, gas, and other mineral deposits in submerged lands
      conveyed to Guam, Virgin Islands, and American Samoa; conveyance
      by United States; existing leases, permits, etc.
      (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall, not later than sixty
    days after March 12, 1980, convey to the governments of Guam, the
    Virgin Islands, and American Samoa, as the case may be, all right,
    title, and interest of the United States in deposits of oil, gas,
    and other minerals in the submerged lands conveyed to the
    government of such territory by subsection (a) of this section.
      (2) The conveyance of mineral deposits under paragraph (1) of
    this subsection shall be subject to any existing lease, permit, or
    other interest granted by the United States prior to the date of
    such conveyance. All rentals, royalties, or fees which accrue after
    such date of conveyance in connection with any such lease, permit,
    or other interest shall be payable to the government of the
    territory to which such mineral deposits are conveyed.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-435, Sec. 1, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1210; Pub. L. 96-
    205, title VI, Sec. 607, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 91; Pub. L. 103-
    437, Sec. 17(b), Nov. 2, 1994, 108 Stat. 4595.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The authorization for the construction by the Navy of the
    Ammunition Pier under the Military Construction Authorization Act,
    1971, (84 Stat. 1204), as amended by section 201 of the Military
    Construction Act, 1973 (86 Stat. 1135), referred to in subsec.
    (b)(iii), is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 91-511, Oct. 26,
    1970, 84 Stat. 1204, as amended by section 201 of Pub. L. 92-545,
    Oct. 25, 1972, 86 Stat. 1138, which is not classified to the Code.
      Section 398b of title 16, referred to in subsec. (b)(x), was
    repealed by Pub. L. 85-404, May 16, 1958, 72 Stat. 112.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1994 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 103-437 substituted "Committee on
    Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee
    on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate" for "Committees on
    Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and
    the Senate".
      1980 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 96-205, Sec. 607(b), inserted
    "subsection (a) or (b) of" before "this section".
      Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 96-205, Sec. 607(a), added subsec. (d).


-EXEC-
     PROC. NO. 4346. RESERVING CERTAIN LANDS ADJACENT TO AND ENLARGING
    BOUNDARIES OF BUCK ISLAND REEF NATIONAL MONUMENT IN VIRGIN ISLANDS
      Proc. No. 4346, eff. Feb. 1, 1975, 40 F.R. 5127, as amended by
    Proc. No. 4359, eff. Mar. 28, 1975, 40 F.R. 14565, provided:
      The Buck Island Reef National Monument, situated off the
    northeast coast of Saint Croix Island in the Virgin Islands of the
    United States, was established by Proclamation No. 3443 of December
    28, 1961 (76 Stat. 1441). It now has been determined that
    approximately thirty acres of submerged land should be added to the
    monument site in order to insure the proper care and management of
    the shoals, rocks, undersea coral reef formations and other objects
    of scientific and historical interest pertaining to this National
    Monument.
      These thirty acres of submerged lands are presently owned in fee
    by the United States. They will be conveyed to the Government of
    the Virgin Islands on February 3, 1975, pursuant to Section 1(a) of
    Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210) [subsec. (a) of this section],
    unless the President, under Section 1(b)(vii) of that Act [subsec.
    (b)(vii) of this section], designates otherwise.
      Under Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16
    U.S.C. 431), the President is authorized to declare by public
    Proclamation objects of historic or scientific interest that are
    situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the Government of
    the United States to be national monuments, and may reserve as a
    part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which in all cases
    shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper
    care and management of the objects to be protected. The
    aforementioned thirty acres of submerged lands are contiguous to
    the site of the Buck Island Reef National Monument, constitute a
    part of the ecological community of the Buck Island Reef, and will
    not enlarge the monument boundaries beyond the smallest area
    compatible with its proper care and management.
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States
    of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by Section
    1(b)(vii) of Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210) [subsec. (b)(vii) of
    this section], do hereby proclaim that the lands hereinafter
    described are excepted from the transfer to the Government of the
    Virgin Islands under Section 1(a) of Public Law 93-435 [subsec. (a)
    of this section]; and, by virtue of the authority vested in me by
    Section 2 of the Act of June 8, 1906, 34 Stat. 225 (16 U.S.C. 431),
    do hereby proclaim that, subject to valid existing rights, the
    lands hereinafter described are hereby added to and made a part of
    the Buck Island Reef National Monument, and Proclamation No. 3443
    of December 28, 1961, establishing the Buck Island Reef National
    Monument is amended accordingly.
      Beginning at latitude 17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4730 N.
    longitude 64&#186;<!-- degrees -->3632 W; thence approximately
    1000 feet to latitude 17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4727 N, longitude
    64&#186;<!-- degrees -->3622 W; thence approximately 900 feet to
    latitude 17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4718 N, longitude 64&#186;<!-
    - degrees -->3622 W; thence approximately 1000 feet to latitude
    17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4715 N, longitude 64&#186;<!--
    degrees -->3632 W; thence approximately 1500 feet to latitude
    17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4730 N, longitude 64&#186;<!--
    degrees -->3632 W, then place of beginning, embracing an area of
    approximately 30 acres.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
    February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five and
    of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred
    and ninety-ninth.
                                                         Gerald R. Ford.

    PROC. NO. 4347. RESERVING CERTAIN SUBMERGED LANDS ADJACENT TO ROSE
       ATOLL NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE IN AMERICAN SAMOA AND CERTAIN
      SUBMERGED LANDS FOR DEFENSE NEEDS OF UNITED STATES IN GUAM AND
                              VIRGIN ISLANDS
      Proc. No. 4347, eff. Feb. 1, 1975, 40 F.R. 5129, provided:
      The submerged lands surrounding the Rose Atoll National Wildlife
    Refuge in American Samoa are necessary for the protection of the
    Atoll's marine life, including the green sea and hawksbill turtles.
    The submerged lands in Apra Harbor and those adjacent to Inapsan
    Beach and Urano Point in Guam, and certain submerged lands on the
    west coast of St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands are required
    for national defense purposes. These submerged lands in American
    Samoa, Guam and the United States Virgin Islands will be conveyed
    to the Government of those territories, on February 3, 1975,
    pursuant to Section 1(a) of Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210)
    [subsec. (a) of this section], unless the President, under Section
    1(b)(vii) of that Act [subsec (b)(vii) of this section], designates
    otherwise.
      NOW, THEREFORE, I GERALD R. FORD, President of the United States
    of America, by virtue of authority vested in me by Section
    1(b)(vii) of Public Law 93-435 (88 Stat. 1210) [subsec. (b)(vii) of
    this section], do hereby proclaim that the lands hereinafter
    described are excepted from the transfer to the Government of
    American Samoa, the Government of Guam and the Government of the
    United States Virgin Islands under Section 1(a) of Public Law 93-
    425. [subsec. (a) of this section].
      American Samoa. The submerged lands adjacent to Rose Atoll
    located 78 miles east-southeast of Tau Island in the Manua Group at
    latitude 14&#186;<!-- degrees -->3252 south and longitude
    168&#186;<!-- degrees -->0834 west, which lands shall be under
    the joint administrative jurisdiction of the Department of Commerce
    and the Department of the Interior.
      Guam. (1) The submerged lands of inner and outer Apra Harbor;
    and, (2) the submerged lands adjacent to the following uplands: (a)
    Unsurveyed land, Municipality of Machanao, Guam, as delineated on
    Commander Naval Forces. Marianas Y & D Drawing Numbered 597-464,
    lying between the seaward boundaries of Lots Numbered 9992 through
    9997 and the mean high tide, containing an undetermined area of
    land, (b) unsurveyed land, Municipality of Machanao, Guam, as
    delineated on Commander Naval Forces, Marianas Y & D Drawing
    Numbered 597-464, lying between the seaward boundary of Lot
    Numbered 10080 and the line of mean high tide, containing an
    undetermined amount of land, and (c) Lot Numbered PO 4.1 in the
    Municipality of Machanao, Guam, as delineated on Y & D Drawing
    Numbered 597-464, more particularly described as surveyed land
    bordered on the north by Lot Numbered 10080, Machanao, east by
    Northwest Air Force Base, south by U. S. Naval Communication
    Station (Finegayan) and west by the sea containing a computed area
    of 125.50 acres, more or less. All of the above lands within the
    territory of Guam shall be under the administrative jurisdiction of
    the Department of the Navy.
      The Virgin Islands. (1) The submerged lands as described in the
    Code of Federal Regulations revised as of July 1, 1974, cited as 33
    CFR 207.817 areas "A" & "B", (2) the submerged lands seaward of the
    100 fathom curve off the coast of St. Croix beginning at a point
    17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4030 N and ending at a point
    17&#186;<!-- degrees -->4630 North as depicted on Coast and
    Geodetic Survey Chart Numbered 25250, Third Edition; Title: St.
    Croix, Virgin Islands Underwater Range, and (3) the submerged lands
    seaward of the Underwater Range Operational Control Center, St.
    Croix, Virgin Islands presently leased to the Department of the
    Navy and described as Plot 1B18 of Estate Sprat Hall subdivision,
    located in northside Quarter "A", St. Croix containing 4.84 acres
    of land. All of the above lands within the territory of the Virgin
    Islands shall be under the administrative jurisdiction of the
    Department of the Navy.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
    February, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-five,
    and of the Independence of the United States of America the one
    hundred and ninety-ninth.
                                                         Gerald R. Ford.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1706                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1706. Reserved rights

-STATUTE-
    (a) Establishment of naval defense sea areas and airspace
      reservations
      Nothing in this Act shall affect the right of the President to
    establish naval defensive sea areas and naval airspace reservations
    around and over the islands of Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin
    Islands when deemed necessary for national defense.
    (b) Navigation; flood control; power production
      Nothing in this Act shall affect the use, development,
    improvement, or control by or under the constitutional authority of
    the United States of the lands transferred by section 1705 of this
    title, and the navigable waters overlying such lands, for the
    purposes of navigation or flood control or the production of power,
    or be construed as the release or relinquishment of any rights of
    the United States arising under the constitutional authority of
    Congress to regulate or improve navigation, or to provide for flood
    control or the production of power.
    (c) Navigational servitude and powers of regulation for purposes of
      commerce, navigation, national defense, and international affairs
      The United States retains all of its navigational servitude and
    rights in and powers of regulation and control of the lands
    conveyed by section 1705 of this title, and the navigable waters
    overlying such lands, for the constitutional purposes of commerce,
    navigation, national defense, and international affairs, all of
    which shall be paramount to, but shall not be deemed to include,
    proprietary rights of ownership, or the rights of management,
    administration, leasing, use, and development of the lands and
    natural resources which are specifically conveyed to the government
    of Guam, the Virgin Islands, or American Samoa, as the case may be,
    by section 1705 of this title.
    (d) Status of lands beyond the three-mile limit
      Nothing in this Act shall affect the status of lands beyond the
    three-mile limit described in section 1705 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-435, Sec. 2, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1211.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), and (d), is Pub. L.
    93-435, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1210, as amended, which enacted
    sections 1705 to 1708 of this title, amended section 1545 of this
    title, and repealed sections 1701 to 1703 of this title. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1707                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1707. Payment of rents, royalties, and fees to local
      government

-STATUTE-
      On and after October 5, 1974, all rents, royalties, or fees from
    leases, permits, or use rights, issued prior to October 5, 1974, by
    the United States with respect to the land conveyed by this Act, or
    by the amendment made by this Act, and rights of action for damages
    for trespass occupancies of such lands shall accrue and belong to
    the appropriate local government under whose jurisdiction the land
    is located.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-435, Sec. 4, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1212.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 93-435, Oct. 5, 1974,
    88 Stat. 1210, as amended, which enacted sections 1705 to 1708 of
    this title, amended section 1545 of this title, and repealed
    sections 1701 to 1703 of this title. For complete classification of
    this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The amendment made by this Act, referred to in text, means the
    amendment made by section 3 of Pub. L. 93-435 to section 1545(b) of
    this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1708                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 15 - CONVEYANCE OF SUBMERGED LANDS TO TERRITORIES

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1708. Discrimination prohibited in rights of access to, and
      benefits from, conveyed lands

-STATUTE-
      No person shall be denied access to, or any of the benefits
    accruing from, the lands conveyed by this Act, or by the amendment
    made by this Act, on the basis of race, religion, creed, color,
    sex, national origin, or ancestry: Provided, however, That this
    section shall not be construed in derogation of any of the
    provisions of the April 17, 1900 cession of Tutuila and Aunuu or
    the July 16, 1904 cession of the Manu's Islands, as ratified by the
    Act of February 20, 1929 (45 Stat. 1253) and the Act of May 22,
    1929 (46 Stat. 4).

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 93-435, Sec. 6, Oct. 5, 1974, 88 Stat. 1212.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 93-435, Oct. 5, 1974,
    88 Stat. 1210, as amended, which enacted sections 1705 to 1708 of
    this title, amended section 1545 of this title, and repealed
    sections 1701 to 1703 of this title. For complete classification of
    this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The amendment made by this Act, referred to in text, means the
    amendment made by section 3 of Pub. L. 93-435 to section 1545(b) of
    this title.
      Act of February 20, 1929, referred to in text, is act Feb. 20,
    1929, ch. 281, 45 Stat. 1253, as amended, which enacted section
    1661 of this title.
      Act of May 22, 1929, referred to in text, is act May 22, 1929,
    ch. 6, 46 Stat. 4, which amended section 1661 of this title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS

-HEAD-
                    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS                


-MISC1-
                  SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS              
    Sec.                                                     
    1711.       Delegate to House of Representatives from Guam and
                 Virgin Islands.                                      
    1712.       Election of delegates; majority; runoff election;
                 vacancy; commencement of term.                       
    1713.       Qualifications for Office of Delegate.                
    1714.       Territorial legislature; determination of election
                 procedure.                                           
    1715.       Operation of Office; House privileges; compensation,
                 allowances, and benefits; privileges and immunities;
                 voting in committee.                                 

                      SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA                  
    1731.       Delegate to House of Representatives from American
                 Samoa.                                               
    1732.       Election of delegates.                                
    1733.       Qualifications for Office of Delegate.                
    1734.       Territorial government; determination of election
                 procedure.                                           
    1735.       Operation of Office; compensation, allowances, and
                 benefits; privileges and immunities.                 

            SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE        
    1751.       Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth
                 of the Northern Mariana Islands.                     
    1752.       Election of Delegate.                                 
    1753.       Qualifications for office of Delegate.                
    1754.       Determination of election procedure.                  
    1755.       Compensation, privileges, and immunities.             
    1756.       Lack of effect on covenant.                           
    1757.       Definition.                                           

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                  SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS              

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1711                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1711. Delegate to House of Representatives from Guam and
      Virgin Islands

-STATUTE-
      The territory of Guam and the territory of the Virgin Islands
    each shall be represented in the United States Congress by a
    nonvoting Delegate to the House of Representatives, elected as
    hereinafter provided.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-271, Sec. 1, Apr. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 118.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1712                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1712. Election of delegates; majority; runoff election;
      vacancy; commencement of term

-STATUTE-
      (a) The Delegate shall be elected by the people qualified to vote
    for the members of the legislature of the territory he is to
    represent at the general election of 1972, and thereafter at such
    general election every second year thereafter. The Delegate from
    the Virgin Islands shall be elected at large, by separate ballot
    and by a majority of the votes cast for the office of Delegate. The
    Delegate from Guam shall be elected at large and by a majority of
    the votes cast for the office of Delegate. If no candidate receives
    such majority, on the fourteenth day following such election a
    runoff election shall be held between the candidates receiving the
    highest and the second highest number of votes cast for the office
    of Delegate. In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of
    Delegate, by reason of death, resignation, or permanent disability,
    the office of Delegate shall remain vacant until a successor shall
    have been elected and qualified.
      (b) The term of the Delegate shall commence on the third day of
    January following the date of the election.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-271, Sec. 2, Apr. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 119; Pub. L. 105-
    209, Sec. 1, July 29, 1998, 112 Stat. 880.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 105-209 inserted "from the Virgin
    Islands" before "shall be elected at large" and inserted "The
    Delegate from Guam shall be elected at large and by a majority of
    the votes cast for the office of Delegate." before "If no candidate
    receives such majority".

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1713                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1713. Qualifications for Office of Delegate

-STATUTE-
      To be eligible for the Office of Delegate a candidate must - 
        (a) be at least twenty-five years of age on the date of the
      election,
        (b) have been a citizen of the United States for at least seven
      years prior to the date of the election,
        (c) be an inhabitant of the territory from which he is elected,
      and
        (d) not be, on the date of the election, a candidate for any
      other office.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-271, Sec. 3, Apr. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 119.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1714                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1714. Territorial legislature; determination of election
      procedure

-STATUTE-
      The legislature of each territory may determine the order of
    names on the ballot for election of Delegate, the method by which a
    special election to fill a vacancy in the office of Delegate shall
    be conducted, the method by which ties between candidates for the
    office of Delegate shall be resolved, and all other matters of
    local application pertaining to the election and the office of
    Delegate not otherwise expressly provided for herein.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-271, Sec. 4, Apr. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 119.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1715                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER I - GUAM AND VIRGIN ISLANDS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1715. Operation of Office; House privileges; compensation,
      allowances, and benefits; privileges and immunities; voting in
      committee

-STATUTE-
      The Delegate from Guam and the Delegate from the Virgin Islands
    shall have such privileges in the House of Representatives as may
    be afforded him under the Rules of the House of Representatives.
    Until the Rules of the House of Representatives are amended to
    provide otherwise, the Delegate from each territory shall receive
    the same compensation, allowances, and benefits as a Member of the
    House of Representatives, and shall be entitled to whatever
    privileges and immunities are, or hereinafter may be, granted to
    the Resident Commissioner for Puerto Rico: Provided, That the right
    to vote in committee shall be as provided by the Rules of the House
    of Representatives.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 92-271, Sec. 5, Apr. 10, 1972, 86 Stat. 119; Pub. L. 104-
    186, title II, Sec. 224(4), Aug. 20, 1996, 110 Stat. 1752.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1996 - Pub. L. 104-186 struck out last two provisos which read as
    follows: "Provided further, That the clerk hire allowance of each
    Delegate shall be a single per annum gross rate that is 60 per
    centum of the clerk hire allowance of a Member: Provided further,
    That the transportation expenses of each Delegate that are subject
    to reimbursement under section 43b of title 2 shall not exceed the
    cost of four round trips each year."

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
                      SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA                  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1731                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1731. Delegate to House of Representatives from American Samoa

-STATUTE-
      The Territory of American Samoa shall be represented in the
    United States Congress by a nonvoting Delegate to the House of
    Representatives, elected as hereinafter provided.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-556, Sec. 1, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2078.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1732                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1732. Election of delegates

-STATUTE-
    (a) In general; plurality vote; vacancy
      The Delegate shall be elected by the people qualified to vote for
    the popularly elected officials of the Territory of American Samoa
    at the general Federal election of 1980, and thereafter at such
    general election every second year thereafter. The Delegate shall
    be elected at large, by separate ballot, and by a plurality of the
    votes cast for the office of Delegate. In case of a permanent
    vacancy in the office of Delegate, by reason of death, resignation,
    or permanent disability, the office of Delegate shall remain vacant
    until a successor shall have been elected and qualified.
    (b) Commencement of term
      The term of the Delegate shall commence on the third day of
    January following the date of the election.
    (c) Establishment of primary elections
      The legislature of American Samoa may, but is not required to,
    provide for primary elections for the election of Delegate.
    (d) Effect of establishment of primary elections
      Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, if the
    legislature of American Samoa provides for primary elections for
    the election of Delegate, the Delegate shall be elected by a
    majority of votes cast in any subsequent general election for the
    office of Delegate for which such primary elections were held.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-556, Sec. 2, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2078; Pub. L. 108-
    376, Sec. 2, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2200.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108-376, Sec. 2(1), substituted
    "plurality of the votes cast" for "majority of the votes cast" and
    struck out "If no candidate receives such majority, on the
    fourteenth day following such election a runoff election shall be
    held between the candidates receiving the highest and the second
    highest number of votes cast for the office of Delegate." before
    "In case of".
      Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 108-376, Sec. 2(2), added subsecs. (c)
    and (d).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2004 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 108-376, Sec. 3, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2201, provided
    that: "The amendments made by paragraph (1) of section 2 [amending
    subsec. (a) of this section] shall take effect on January 1, 2006.
    The amendment made by paragraph (2) of section 2 [adding subsecs.
    (c) and (d) of this section] shall take effect on January 1, 2005."

                                 FINDINGS                             
      Pub. L. 108-376, Sec. 1, Oct. 30, 2004, 118 Stat. 2200, provided
    that: "Congress finds the following:
        "(1) It is in the national interest that qualifying members of
      the Armed Forces on active duty and other overseas voters be
      allowed to vote in Federal elections.
        "(2) Since 1980, when the first election for the Congressional
      Delegate from American Samoa was held, general elections have
      been held in the first week of November in even-numbered years
      and runoff elections have been held 2 weeks later.
        "(3) This practice of holding a run-off election 2 weeks after
      a general election deprives members of the Armed Forces on active
      duty and other overseas voters of the opportunity to participate
      in the Federal election process in American Samoa.
        "(4) Prior to and since September 11, 2001, and due to limited
      air service, mail delays, and other considerations, it has been
      and remains impossible for absentee ballots to be prepared and
      returned within a 2-week period.
        "(5) American Samoa law requiring members of the Armed Forces
      on active duty and other overseas voters to register in person
      also prevents participation in the Federal election process and
      is contrary to the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee
      Voting Act [42 U.S.C. 1973ff et seq.].
        "(6) Given that 49 states elect their Representatives to the
      United States House of Representatives by plurality, it is in the
      national interest for American Samoa to do the same until such
      time as the American Samoa Legislature establishes primary
      elections and declares null and void the local practice of
      requiring members of the Armed Forces on active duty and other
      overseas voters to register in person which is contrary to the
      federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1733                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1733. Qualifications for Office of Delegate

-STATUTE-
      To be eligible for the office of Delegate a candidate shall - 
        (a) be at least twenty-five years of age on the date of the
      election;
        (b) owe allegiance to the United States;
        (c) be an inhabitant of the Territory of American Samoa; and
        (d) not be, on the date of the election, a candidate for any
      other office.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-556, Sec. 3, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2078; Pub. L. 95-
    584, Sec. 3, Nov. 2, 1978, 92 Stat. 2483.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1978 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-584 substituted allegiance
    requirement for provision requiring United States citizenship for
    at least seven years prior to the date of the election.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1734                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1734. Territorial government; determination of election
      procedure

-STATUTE-
      Acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with section
    9, article II of the American Samoan Revised Constitution, the
    territorial government will determine the order of names on the
    ballot for election of Delegate, the method by which a special
    election to fill a vacancy in the office of Delegate shall be
    conducted, the method by which ties between candidates for the
    office of Delegate shall be resolved, and all other matters of
    local application pertaining to the election and the office of
    Delegate not otherwise expressly provided for herein.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-556, Sec. 4, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2078.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1735                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER II - AMERICAN SAMOA

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1735. Operation of Office; compensation, allowances, and
      benefits; privileges and immunities

-STATUTE-
      Until the Rules of the House of Representatives are amended to
    provide otherwise, the Delegate from American Samoa shall receive
    the same compensation, allowances, and benefits as a Member of the
    House of Representatives, and shall be entitled to whatever
    privileges and immunities that are, or hereinafter may be, granted
    to the nonvoting Delegate from the Territory of Guam.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-556, Sec. 5, Oct. 31, 1978, 92 Stat. 2078; Pub. L. 97-
    357, title IV, Sec. 401, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1711.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1982 - Pub. L. 97-357 struck out proviso limiting clerk hire
    allowance for Delegate from American Samoa to 50 per centum of
    clerk hire allowance of a Member of House of Representatives.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1982 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 401 of Pub. L. 97-357 provided that amendment made by
    that section is effective Jan. 1, 1983.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE    02/01/2010 

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
            SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE        

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1751                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1751. Delegate to House of Representatives from Commonwealth
      of the Northern Mariana Islands

-STATUTE-
      The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be
    represented in the United States Congress by the Resident
    Representative to the United States authorized by section 901 of
    the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States of America
    (approved by Public Law 94-241 (48 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.)). The
    Resident Representative shall be a nonvoting Delegate to the House
    of Representatives, elected as provided in this subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 711, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 901 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States
    of America, referred to in text, is contained in section 1 of Pub.
    L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      Public Law 94-241, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 94-241, Mar.
    24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, which is classified generally to subchapter
    I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    subtitle", meaning subtitle B (Secs. 711-718) of title VII of Pub.
    L. 110-229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868, which enacted this
    subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10,
    Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the
    Code, see Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1752                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1752. Election of Delegate

-STATUTE-
    (a) Electors and time of election
      The Delegate shall be elected - 
        (1) by the people qualified to vote for the popularly elected
      officials of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
      and
        (2) at the Federal general election of 2008 and at such Federal
      general election every 2d year thereafter.
    (b) Manner of election
      (1) In general
        The Delegate shall be elected at large and by a plurality of
      the votes cast for the office of Delegate.
      (2) Effect of establishment of primary elections
        Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the Government of the
      Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, acting pursuant to
      legislation enacted in accordance with the Constitution of the
      Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, provides for
      primary elections for the election of the Delegate, the Delegate
      shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast in any general
      election for the office of Delegate for which such primary
      elections were held.
    (c) Vacancy
      In case of a permanent vacancy in the office of Delegate, the
    office of Delegate shall remain vacant until a successor is elected
    and qualified.
    (d) Commencement of term
      The term of the Delegate shall commence on the 3d day of January
    following the date of the election.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 712, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1753                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1753. Qualifications for office of Delegate

-STATUTE-
      To be eligible for the office of Delegate a candidate shall - 
        (1) be at least 25 years of age on the date of the election;
        (2) have been a citizen of the United States for at least 7
      years prior to the date of the election;
        (3) be a resident and domiciliary of the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands for at least 7 years prior to the date
      of the election;
        (4) be qualified to vote in the Commonwealth of the Northern
      Mariana Islands on the date of the election; and
        (5) not be, on the date of the election, a candidate for any
      other office.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 713, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1754                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1754. Determination of election procedure

-STATUTE-
      Acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with the
    Constitution of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
    the Government of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
    may determine the order of names on the ballot for election of
    Delegate, the method by which a special election to fill a
    permanent vacancy in the office of Delegate shall be conducted, the
    method by which ties between candidates for the office of Delegate
    shall be resolved, and all other matters of local application
    pertaining to the election and the office of Delegate not otherwise
    expressly provided for in this subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 714, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 869.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    subtitle", meaning subtitle B (Secs. 711-718) of title VII of Pub.
    L. 110-229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868, which enacted this
    subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10,
    Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the
    Code, see Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1755                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1755. Compensation, privileges, and immunities

-STATUTE-
      Until the Rules of the House of Representatives are amended to
    provide otherwise, the Delegate from the Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands shall receive the same compensation,
    allowances, and benefits as a Member of the House of
    Representatives, and shall be entitled to whatever privileges and
    immunities are, or hereinafter may be, granted to any other
    nonvoting Delegate to the House of Representatives.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 715, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 869.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1756                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1756. Lack of effect on covenant

-STATUTE-
      No provision of this subchapter shall be construed to alter,
    amend, or abrogate any provision of the covenant referred to in
    section 1751 of this title except section 901 of the covenant.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 716, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 869.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    subtitle", meaning subtitle B (Secs. 711-718) of title VII of Pub.
    L. 110-229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868, which enacted this
    subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10,
    Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the
    Code, see Tables.
      The covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1757                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 16 - DELEGATES TO CONGRESS
    SUBCHAPTER III - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS DELEGATE

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1757. Definition

-STATUTE-
      For purposes of this subchapter, the term "Delegate" means the
    Resident Representative referred to in section 1751 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 717, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 869.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This subchapter, referred to in text, was in the original "this
    subtitle", meaning subtitle B (Secs. 711-718) of title VII of Pub.
    L. 110-229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 868, which enacted this
    subchapter and amended sections 4342, 6954 and 9432 of Title 10,
    Armed Forces. For complete classification of subtitle B to the
    Code, see Tables.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS                02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS

-HEAD-
                   CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS               


-MISC1-
      SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS  
    Sec.                                                     
    1801.       Approval of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of
                 the Northern Mariana Islands.                        
    1802.       Consideration of issues affecting relations with
                 United States.                                       
    1803.       Financial assistance to Government of Northern Mariana
                 Islands.                                             
    1804.       Direct grant assistance.                              
    1805.       Failure to meet performance standards; resolution of
                 issues; withholding of funds.                        
    1806.       Immigration and transition.                           
    1807.       Technical assistance program.                         
    1808.       Operations.                                           

                     SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS                 
    1821.       District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands.      
    1822.       Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction;
                 procedural requirements.                             
    1823.       Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
                 review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth
                 Circuit; rules.                                      
    1824.       Relations between courts of United States and courts
                 of Northern Mariana Islands; applicability of
                 statutory provisions.                                
    1825.       Effective date.                                       
    1826.       Authorization of appropriations.                      

                      SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS                  
    1841.       Funds and services.                                   
    1842.       Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds
                 collected pursuant to Covenant.                      
    1843.       Exemption from taxation for income derived from
                 sources within Commonwealth.                         
    1844.       Political union between Territory of Guam and
                 Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands.            
    1845.       Plans for development, utilization, and conservation
                 of water and related land resources.                 
    1846.       Exemption from assessment and taxation of real
                 property owned by Commonwealth in United States
                 capital.                                             

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND
           SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS                         02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
      SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1801                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1801. Approval of Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands

-STATUTE-
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, the
    text of which is as follows, is hereby approved.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 1, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America,
    referred to in text, which was contained in this section (section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241), is set out as a note below.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC1-
       APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENT OF UNITED STATES CITIZENSHIP OR
        NATIONALITY AS PREREQUISITE OF ANY BENEFIT, RIGHT, ETC., TO
                   CITIZENS OF NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 98-213, Secs. 17-25, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1463-1466,
    exempted citizens of Northern Mariana Islands from laws prohibiting
    United States Government from compensating or employing noncitizens
    and from requirement of United States citizenship in certain
    Federal laws providing Federal services or financial assistance to
    Northern Mariana Islands, authorized President to issue
    proclamations exempting citizens of Northern Mariana Islands from
    United States citizenship or nationality requirements of certain
    statutes, provided that if President failed to timely issue a
    proclamation, the requirement of United States citizenship or
    nationality as a prerequisite of any benefit, right, privilege, or
    immunity in any statute made applicable to the Northern Mariana
    Islands would not apply to citizens of the Northern Mariana
    Islands, provided that Pub. L. 98-213 did not extend to Northern
    Mariana Islands any statutory provision or regulation, particularly
    statutes relating to immigration and nationality, not otherwise
    applicable to or within Northern Mariana Islands, provided for
    termination of President's authority to issue proclamations upon
    establishment of Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
    defined terms, and provided for merger of benefits acquired under
    Pub. L. 98-213 into those acquired by virtue of United States
    citizenship unless recipient exercised his privilege to become a
    national but not a citizen of United States.

     AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRANSITION OF MARIANA ISLANDS
                      DISTRICT TO COMMONWEALTH STATUS
      Pub. L. 94-27, Sec. 2, May 28, 1975, 89 Stat. 95, authorized
    appropriation of $1,500,000 to aid in transition of Mariana Islands
    District to a new Commonwealth status as a territory of United
    States and provided that no part could be obligated or expended
    until Congress approved final agreement between Marianas Political
    Status Commission and United States.

                              RECITAL CLAUSES                          
      Pub. L. 94-241 which enacted this subchapter contained several
    "Whereas" clauses reading as follows:
      "Whereas the United States is the administering authority of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands under the terms of the
    trusteeship agreement for the former Japanese-mandated islands
    entered into by the United States with the Security Council of the
    United Nations on April 2, 1947, and approved by the United States
    on July 18, 1947; and
      "Whereas the United States, in accordance with the trusteeship
    agreement and the Charter of the United Nations, has assumed the
    obligation to promote the development of the peoples of the trust
    territory toward self-government or independence as may be
    appropriate to the particular circumstances of the trust territory
    and its peoples and the freely expressed wishes of the peoples
    concerned; and
      "Whereas the United States, in response to the desires of the
    people of the Northern Mariana Islands clearly expressed over the
    past twenty years through public petition and referendum, and in
    response to its own obligations under the trusteeship agreement to
    promote self-determination, entered into political status
    negotiations with representatives of the people of the Northern
    Mariana Islands; and
      "Whereas, on February 15, 1975, a 'Covenant to Establish A
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America' [set out below] was signed by
    the Marianas Political Status Commission for the people of the
    Northern Mariana Islands and by the President's Personal
    Representative, Ambassador F. Haydn Williams for the United States
    of America, following which the covenant was approved by the
    unanimous vote of the Mariana Islands District Legislature on
    February 20, 1975 and by 78.8 per centum of the people of the
    Northern Mariana Islands voting in a plebiscite held on June 17,
    1975".

                             TEXT OF COVENANT                         
      Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 1, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended
    by Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 9, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1461; Pub. L. 104-
    208, div. A, title I, Sec. 101(d) [title I], Sept. 30, 1996, 110
    Stat. 3009-181, 3009-196; Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec.
    702(g)(1), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 864, contained the Covenant to
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union with the United States of America as follows:

       "COVENANT TO ESTABLISH A COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA
       ISLANDS IN POLITICAL UNION WITH THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
      "Whereas, the Charter of the United Nations and the Trusteeship
    Agreement between the Security Council of the United Nations and
    the United States of America guarantee to the people of the
    Northern Mariana Islands the right freely to express their wishes
    for self-government or independence; and
      "Whereas, the United States supports the desire of the people of
    the Northern Mariana Islands to exercise their inalienable right of
    self-determination; and
      "Whereas, the people of the Northern Mariana Islands and the
    people of the United States share the goals and values found in the
    American system of government based upon the principles of
    government by the consent of the governed, individual freedom and
    democracy; and
      "Whereas, for over twenty years, the people of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, through public petition and referendum, have
    clearly expressed their desire for political union with the United
    States;
      "Now, therefore, the Marianas Political Status Commission, being
    the duly appointed representative of the people of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, and the Personal Representative of the President
    of the United States have entered into this Covenant in order to
    establish a self-governing commonwealth for the Northern Mariana
    Islands within the American political system and to define the
    future relationship between the Northern Mariana Islands and the
    United States. This Covenant will be mutually binding when it is
    approved by the United States, by the Mariana Islands District
    Legislature and by the people of the Northern Mariana Islands in a
    plebiscite, constituting on their part a sovereign act of self-
    determination.

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                          "POLITICAL RELATIONSHIP                      
      "Section 101. The Northern Mariana Islands upon termination of
    the Trusteeship Agreement will become a self-governing commonwealth
    to be known as the 'Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands',
    in political union with and under the sovereignty of the United
    States of America.
      "Section 102. The relations between the Northern Mariana Islands
    and the United States will be governed by this Covenant which,
    together with those provisions of the Constitution, treaties and
    laws of the United States applicable to the Northern Mariana
    Islands, will be the supreme law of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 103. The people of the Northern Mariana Islands will
    have the right of local self-government and will govern themselves
    with respect to internal affairs in accordance with a Constitution
    of their own adoption.
      "Section 104. The United States will have complete responsibility
    for and authority with respect to matters relating to foreign
    affairs and defense affecting the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 105. The United States may enact legislation in
    accordance with its constitutional processes which will be
    applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands, but if such legislation
    cannot also be made applicable to the several States the Northern
    Mariana Islands must be specifically named therein for it to become
    effective in the Northern Mariana Islands. In order to respect the
    right of self-government guaranteed by this Covenant the United
    States agrees to limit the exercise of that authority so that the
    fundamental provisions of this Covenant, namely Articles I, II and
    III and Sections 501 and 805, may be modified only with the consent
    of the Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

               "CONSTITUTION OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS           
      "Section 201. The people of the Northern Mariana Islands will
    formulate and approve a Constitution and may amend their
    Constitution pursuant to the procedures provided therein.
      "Section 202. The Constitution will be submitted to the
    Government of the United States for approval on the basis of its
    consistency with this Covenant and those provisions of the
    Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States to be
    applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands. The Constitution will
    be deemed to have been approved six months after its submission to
    the President on behalf of the Government of the United States
    unless earlier approved or disapproved. If disapproved the
    Constitution will be returned and will be resubmitted in accordance
    with this Section. Amendments to the Constitution may be made by
    the people of the Northern Mariana Islands without approval by the
    Government of the United States, but the courts established by the
    Constitution or laws of the United States will be competent to
    determine whether the Constitution and subsequent amendments
    thereto are consistent with this Covenant and with those provisions
    of the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States
    applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 203. (a) The Constitution will provide for a republican
    form of government with separate executive, legislative and
    judicial branches, and will contain a bill of rights.
      "(b) The executive power of the Northern Mariana Islands will be
    vested in a popularly elected Governor and such other officials as
    the Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana Islands may
    provide.
      "(c) The legislative power of the Northern Mariana Islands will
    be vested in a popularly elected legislature and will extend to all
    rightful subjects of legislation. The Constitution of the Northern
    Mariana Islands will provide for equal representation for each of
    the chartered municipalities of the Northern Mariana Islands in one
    house of a bicameral legislature, notwithstanding other provisions
    of this Covenant or those provisions of the Constitution or laws of
    the United States applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "(d) The judicial power of the Northern Mariana Islands will be
    vested in such courts as the Constitution or laws of the Northern
    Mariana Islands may provide. The Constitution or laws of the
    Northern Mariana Islands may vest in such courts jurisdiction over
    all causes in the Northern Mariana Islands over which any court
    established by the Constitution or laws of the United States does
    not have exclusive jurisdiction.
      "Section 204. All members of the legislature of the Northern
    Mariana Islands and all officers and employees of the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands will take an oath or affirmation to
    support this Covenant, those provisions of the Constitution,
    treaties and laws of the United States applicable to the Northern
    Mariana Islands, and the Constitution and laws of the Northern
    Mariana Islands.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                       "CITIZENSHIP AND NATIONALITY                   
      "Section 301. The following persons and their children under the
    age of 18 years on the effective date of this Section, who are not
    citizens or nationals of the United States under any other
    provision of law, and who on that date do not owe allegiance to any
    foreign state, are declared to be citizens of the United States,
    except as otherwise provided in Section 302:
        "(a) all persons born in the Northern Mariana Islands who are
      citizens of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on the day
      preceding the effective date of this Section, and who on that
      date are domiciled in the Northern Mariana Islands or in the
      United States or any territory or possession thereof;
        "(b) all persons who are citizens of the Trust Territory of the
      Pacific Islands on the day preceding the effective date of this
      Section, who have been domiciled continuously in the Northern
      Mariana Islands for at least five years immediately prior to that
      date, and who, unless under age, registered to vote in elections
      for the Marianas Islands District Legislature or for any
      municipal election in the Northern Mariana Islands prior to
      January 1, 1975; and
        "(c) all persons domiciled in the Northern Mariana Islands on
      the day preceding the effective date of this Section, who,
      although not citizens of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, on that date have been domiciled continuously in the
      Northern Mariana Islands beginning prior to January 1, 1974.
      "Section 302. Any person who becomes a citizen of the United
    States solely by virtue of the provisions of Section 301 may within
    six months after the effective date of that Section or within six
    months after reaching the age of 18 years, whichever date is the
    later, become a national but not a citizen of the United States by
    making a declaration under oath before any court established by the
    Constitution or laws of the United States or any court of record in
    the Commonwealth in the form as follows:
      " 'I ________ being duly sworn, hereby declare my intention to be
    a national but not a citizen of the United States.'
      "Section 303. All persons born in the Commonwealth on or after
    the effective date of this Section and subject to the jurisdiction
    of the United States will be citizens of the United States at
    birth.
      "Section 304. Citizens of the Northern Mariana Islands will be
    entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the
    several States of the United States.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                            "JUDICIAL AUTHORITY                        
      "Section 401. The United States will establish for and within the
    Northern Mariana Islands a court of record to be known as the
    'District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands'. The Northern
    Mariana Islands will constitute a part of the same judicial circuit
    of the United States as Guam.
      "Section 402. (a) The District Court for the Northern Mariana
    Islands will have the jurisdiction of a district court of the
    United States, except that in all causes arising under the
    Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States it will have
    jurisdiction regardless of the sum or value of the matter in
    controversy.
      "(b) The District Court will have original jurisdiction in all
    causes in the Northern Mariana Islands not described in Subsection
    (a) jurisdiction over which is not vested by the Constitution or
    laws of the Northern Mariana Islands in a court or courts of the
    Northern Mariana Islands. In causes brought in the District Court
    solely on the basis of this subsection, the District Court will be
    considered a court of the Northern Mariana Islands for the purposes
    of determining the requirements of indictment by grand jury or
    trial by jury.
      "(c) The District Court will have such appellate jurisdiction as
    the Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana Islands may
    provide. When it sits as an appellate court, the District Court
    will consist of three judges, at least one of whom will be a judge
    of a court of record of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 403. (a) The relations between the courts established by
    the Constitution or laws of the United States and the courts of the
    Northern Mariana Islands with respect to appeals, certiorari,
    removal of causes, the issuance of writs of habeas corpus and other
    matters or proceedings will be governed by the laws of the United
    States pertaining to the relations between the courts of the United
    States and the courts of the several States in such matters and
    proceedings, except as otherwise provided in this Article; provided
    that for the first fifteen years following the establishment of an
    appellate court of the Northern Mariana Islands the United States
    Court of Appeals for the judicial circuit which includes the
    Northern Mariana Islands will have jurisdiction of appeals from all
    final decisions of the highest court of the Northern Mariana
    Islands from which a decision could be had in all cases involving
    the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United States, or any
    authority exercised thereunder, unless those cases are reviewable
    in the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to
    Subsection 402(c).
      "(b) Those portions of Title 28 of the United States Code which
    apply to Guam or the District Court of Guam will be applicable to
    the Northern Mariana Islands or the District Court for the Northern
    Mariana Islands, respectively, except as otherwise provided in this
    Article.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                          "APPLICABILITY OF LAWS                      
      "Section 501. (a) To the extent that they are not applicable of
    their own force, the following provisions of the Constitution of
    the United States will be applicable within the Northern Mariana
    Islands as if the Northern Mariana Islands were one of the several
    States: Article I, Section 9, Clauses 2, 3, and 8; Article I,
    Section 10, Clauses 1 and 3; Article IV, Section 1 and Section 2,
    Clauses 1 and 2; Amendments 1 through 9, inclusive; Amendment 13;
    Amendment 14, Section 1; Amendment 15; Amendment 19; and Amendment
    26; provided, however, that neither trial by jury nor indictment by
    grand jury shall be required in any civil action or criminal
    prosecution based on local law, except where required by local law.
    Other provisions of or amendments to the Constitution of the United
    States, which do not apply of their own force within the Northern
    Mariana Islands, will be applicable within the Northern Mariana
    Islands only with approval of the Government of the Northern
    Mariana Islands and of the Government of the United States.
      "(b) The applicability of certain provisions of the Constitution
    of the United States to the Northern Mariana Islands will be
    without prejudice to the validity of and the power of the Congress
    of the United States to consent to Sections 203, 506 and 805 and
    the proviso in Subsection (a) of this Section.
      "Section 502. (a) The following laws of the United States in
    existence on the effective date of this Section and subsequent
    amendments to such laws will apply to the Northern Mariana Islands,
    except as otherwise provided in this Covenant:
        "(1) those laws which provide federal services and financial
      assistance programs and the federal banking laws as they apply to
      Guam; Section 228 of Title II and Title XVI of the Social
      Security Act as it applies to the several States; the Public
      Health Service Act as it applies to the Virgin Islands; and the
      Micronesian Claims Act as it applies to the Trust Territory of
      the Pacific Islands;
        "(2) those laws not described in paragraph (1) which are
      applicable to Guam and which are of general application to the
      several States as they are applicable to the several States; and
        "(3) those laws not described in paragraph (1) or (2) which are
      applicable to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, but not
      their subsequent amendments unless specifically made applicable
      to the Northern Mariana Islands, as they apply to the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands until termination of the
      Trusteeship Agreement, and will thereafter be inapplicable.
      "(b) The laws of the United States regarding coastal shipments
    and the conditions of employment, including the wages and hours of
    employees, will apply to the activities of the United States
    Government and its contractors in the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 503. The following laws of the United States, presently
    inapplicable to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, will
    not apply to the Northern Mariana Islands except in the manner and
    to the extent made applicable to them by the Congress by law after
    termination of the Trusteeship Agreement:
        "(a) except as otherwise provided in Subsection (b) of Section
      502, the coastwise laws of the United States and any prohibition
      in the laws of the United States against foreign vessels landing
      fish or unfinished fish products in the United States; and
        "(b) the minimum wage provisions of Section 6, Act of June 25,
      1938, 52 Stat. 1062, as amended. (As amended Pub. L. 110-229,
      title VII, Sec. 702(g)(1)(A), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 864.)
      "Section 504. The President will appoint a Commission on Federal
    Laws to survey the laws of the United States and to make
    recommendations to the United States Congress as to which laws of
    the United States not applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands
    should be made applicable and to what extent and in what manner,
    and which applicable laws should be made inapplicable and to what
    extent and in what manner. The Commission will consist of seven
    persons (at least four of whom will be citizens of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands who are and have been for at least
    five years domiciled continuously in the Northern Mariana Islands
    at the time of their appointments) who will be representative of
    the federal, local, private and public interests in the
    applicability of laws of the United States to the Northern Mariana
    Islands. The Commission will make its final report and
    recommendations to the Congress within one year after the
    termination of the Trusteeship Agreement, and before that time will
    make such interim reports and recommendations to the Congress as it
    considers appropriate to facilitate the transition of the Northern
    Mariana Islands to its new political status. In formulating its
    recommendations the Commission will take into consideration the
    potential effect of each law on local conditions within the
    Northern Mariana Islands, the policies embodied in the law and the
    provisions and purposes of this Covenant. The United States will
    bear the cost of the work of the Commission.
      "Section 505. The laws of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, of the Mariana Islands District and its local
    municipalities, and all other Executive and District orders of a
    local nature applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands on the
    effective date of this Section and not inconsistent with this
    Covenant or with those provisions of the Constitution, treaties or
    laws of the United States applicable to the Northern Mariana
    Islands will remain in force and effect until and unless altered by
    the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 506. [Repealed. Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec.
    702(g)(1)(B), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 864.]

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                           "REVENUE AND TAXATION                       
      "Section 601. (a) The income tax laws in force in the United
    States will come into force in the Northern Mariana Islands as a
    local territorial income tax on the first day of January following
    the effective date of this Section, in the same manner as those
    laws are in force in Guam.
      "(b) Any individual who is a citizen or a resident of the United
    States, of Guam, or of the Northern Mariana Islands (including a
    national of the United States who is not a citizen), will file only
    one income tax return with respect to his income, in a manner
    similar to the provisions of Section 935 of Title 26, United States
    Code.
      "(c) References in the Internal Revenue Code to Guam will be
    deemed also to refer to the Northern Mariana Islands, where not
    otherwise distinctly expressed or manifestly incompatible with the
    intent thereof or of this Covenant.
      "Section 602. The Government of the Northern Mariana Islands may
    by local law impose such taxes, in addition to those imposed under
    Section 601, as it deems appropriate and provide for the rebate of
    any taxes received by it, except that the power of the Government
    of the Northern Mariana Islands to rebate collections of the local
    territorial income tax received by it will be limited to taxes on
    income derived from sources within the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 603. (a) The Northern Mariana Islands will not be
    included within the customs territory of the United States.
      "(b) The Government of the Northern Mariana Islands may, in a
    manner consistent with the international obligations of the United
    States, levy duties on goods imported into its territory from any
    area outside the customs territory of the United States and impose
    duties on exports from its territory.
      "(c) Imports from the Northern Mariana Islands into the customs
    territory of the United States will be subject to the same
    treatment as imports from Guam into the customs territory of the
    United States.
      "(d) The Government of the United States will seek to obtain from
    foreign countries favorable treatment for exports from the Northern
    Mariana Islands and will encourage other countries to consider the
    Northern Mariana Islands a developing territory.
      "Section 604. (a) The Government of the United States may levy
    excise taxes on goods manufactured, sold or used or services
    rendered in the Northern Mariana Islands in the same manner and to
    the same extent as such taxes are applicable within Guam.
      "(b) The Government of the Northern Mariana Islands will have the
    authority to impose excise taxes upon goods manufactured, sold or
    used or services rendered within its territory or upon goods
    imported into its territory, provided that such excise taxes
    imposed on goods imported into its territory will be consistent
    with the international obligations of the United States.
      "Section 605. Nothing in this Article will be deemed to authorize
    the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands to impose any
    customs duties on the property of the United States or on the
    personal property of military or civilian personnel of the United
    States Government or their dependents entering or leaving the
    Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to their contract of employment
    or orders assigning them to or from the Northern Mariana Islands or
    to impose any taxes on the property, activities or
    instrumentalities of the United States which one of the several
    States could not impose; nor will any provision of this Article be
    deemed to affect the operation of the Soldiers and Sailors Civil
    Relief Act of 1940, as amended, which will be applicable to the
    Northern Mariana Islands as it is applicable to Guam.
      "Section 606. (a) Not later than at the time this Covenant is
    approved, that portion of the Trust Territory Social Security
    Retirement Fund attributable to the Northern Mariana Islands will
    be transferred to the Treasury of the United States, to be held in
    trust as a separate fund to be known as the 'Northern Mariana
    Islands Social Security Retirement Fund'. This fund will be
    administered by the United States in accordance with the social
    security laws of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in
    effect at the time of such transfer, which may be modified by the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands only in a manner which
    does not create any additional differences between the social
    security laws of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the
    laws described in Subsection (b). The United States will supplement
    such fund if necessary to assure that persons receive benefits
    therefrom comparable to those they would have received from the
    Trust Territory Social Security Retirement Fund under the laws
    applicable thereto on the day preceding the establishment of the
    Northern Mariana Islands Social Security Retirement Fund, so long
    as the rate of contributions thereto also remains comparable.
      "(b) Those laws of the United States which impose excise and self-
    employment taxes to support or which provide benefits from the
    United States Social Security System will on January 1 of the first
    calendar year following the termination of the Trusteeship
    Agreement or upon such earlier date as may be agreed to by the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands and the Government of
    the United States become applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands
    as they apply to Guam. (As amended Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 9, Dec. 8,
    1983, 97 Stat. 1461.)
      "(c) At such time as the laws described in Subsection (b) become
    applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands:
        "(1) the Northern Mariana Islands Social Security Retirement
      Fund will be transferred into the appropriate Federal Social
      Security Trust Funds;
        "(2) prior contributions by or on behalf of persons domiciled
      in the Northern Mariana Islands to the Trust Territory Social
      Security Retirement Fund or the Northern Mariana Islands Social
      Security Retirement Fund will be considered to have been made to
      the appropriate Federal Social Security Trust Funds for the
      purpose of determining eligibility of those persons in the
      Northern Mariana Islands for benefits under those laws; and
        "(3) persons domiciled in the Northern Mariana Islands who are
      eligible for or entitled to social security benefits under the
      laws of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or of the
      Northern Mariana Islands will not lose their entitlement and will
      be eligible for or entitled to benefits under the laws described
      in Subsection (b).
      "Section 607. (a) All bonds or other obligations issued by the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands or by its authority will
    be exempt, as to principal and interest, from taxation by the
    United States, or by any State, territory or possession of the
    United States, or any political subdivision of any of them.
      "(b) During the initial seven year period of financial assistance
    provided for in Section 702, and during such subsequent periods of
    financial assistance as may be agreed, the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands will authorize no public indebtedness
    (other than bonds or other obligations of the Government payable
    solely from revenues derived from any public improvement or
    undertaking) in excess of ten percentum of the aggregate assessed
    valuation of the property within the Northern Mariana Islands.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                    "UNITED STATES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE                
      "Section 701. The Government of the United States will assist the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands in its efforts to
    achieve a progressively higher standard of living for its people as
    part of the American economic community and to develop the economic
    resources needed to meet the financial responsibilities of local
    self-government. To this end, the United States will provide direct
    multi-year financial support to the Government of the Northern
    Mariana Islands for local government operations, for capital
    improvement programs and for economic development. The initial
    period of such support will be seven years, as provided in Section
    702.
      "Section 702. Approval of this Covenant by the United States will
    constitute a commitment and pledge of the full faith and credit of
    the United States for the payment, as well as an authorization for
    the appropriation, of the following guaranteed annual levels of
    direct grant assistance to the Government of the Northern Mariana
    Islands for each of the seven fiscal years following the effective
    date of this Section:
        "(a) $8.25 million for budgetary support for government
      operations, of which $250,000 each year will be reserved for a
      special education training fund connected with the change in the
      political status of the Northern Mariana Islands;
        "(b) $4 million for capital improvement projects, of which
      $500,000 each year will be reserved for such projects on the
      Island of Tinian and $500,000 each year will be reserved for such
      projects on the Island of Rota; and
        "(c) $1.75 million for an economic development loan fund, of
      which $500,000 each year will be reserved for small loans to
      farmers and fishermen and to agricultural and marine
      cooperatives, and of which $250,000 each year will be reserved
      for a special program of low interest housing loans for low
      income families.
      "Section 703. (a) The United States will make available to the
    Northern Mariana Islands the full range of federal programs and
    services available to the territories of the United States. Funds
    provided under Section 702 will be considered to be local revenues
    when used as the local share required to obtain federal programs
    and services. (As amended Pub. L. 104-208, div. A, title I, Sec.
    101(d) [title I], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009-181, 3009-196.)
      "(b) There will be paid into the Treasury of the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands, to be expended to the benefit of the
    people thereof as that Government may by law prescribe, the
    proceeds of all customs duties and federal income taxes derived
    from the Northern Mariana Islands, the proceeds of all taxes
    collected under the internal revenue laws of the United States on
    articles produced in the Northern Mariana Islands and transported
    to the United States, its territories or possessions, or consumed
    in the Northern Mariana Islands, the proceeds of any other taxes
    which may be levied by the Congress on the inhabitants of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, and all quarantine and passport fees
    collected in the Northern Mariana Islands, except that nothing in
    this Section shall be construed to apply to any tax imposed by
    Chapters 2 or 21 of Title 26, United States Code. (As amended Pub.
    L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(g)(1)(C), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    864.)
      "Section 704. (a) Funds provided under Section 702 not obligated
    or expended by the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands
    during any fiscal year will remain available for obligation or
    expenditure by that Government in subsequent fiscal years for the
    purposes for which the funds were appropriated.
      "(b) Approval of this Covenant by the United States will
    constitute an authorization for the appropriation of a pro-rata
    share of the funds provided under Section 702 for the period
    between the effective date of this Section and the beginning of the
    next succeeding fiscal year.
      "(c) The amounts stated in Section 702 will be adjusted for each
    fiscal year by a percentage which will be the same as the
    percentage change in the United States Department of Commerce
    composite price index using the beginning of Fiscal Year 1975 as
    the base.
      "(d) Upon expiration of the seven year period of guaranteed
    annual direct grant assistance provided by Section 702, the annual
    level of payments in each category listed in Section 702 will
    continue until Congress appropriates a different amount or
    otherwise provides by law.

                               "ARTICLE VIII                           

                                 "PROPERTY                             
      "Section 801. All right, title and interest of the Government of
    the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in and to real property
    in the Northern Mariana Islands on the date of the signing of this
    Covenant or thereafter acquired in any manner whatsoever will, no
    later than upon the termination of the Trusteeship Agreement, be
    transferred to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands. All
    right, title and interest of the Government of the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands in and to all personal property on the date
    of the signing of this Covenant or thereafter acquired in any
    manner whatsoever will, no later than upon the termination of the
    Trusteeship Agreement, be distributed equitably in a manner to be
    determined by the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands in consultation with those concerned, including the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 802. (a) The following property will be made available
    to the Government of the United States by lease to enable it to
    carry out its defense responsibilities:
        "(1) on Tinian Island, approximately 17,799 acres (7,203
      hectares) and the waters immediately adjacent thereto;
        "(2) on Saipan Island, approximately 177 acres (72 hectares) at
      Tanapag Harbor; and
        "(3) on Farallon de Medinilla Island, approximately 206 acres
      (83 hectares) encompassing the entire island, and the waters
      immediately adjacent thereto.
      "(b) The United States affirms that it has no present need for or
    present intention to acquire any greater interest in property
    listed above than that which is granted to it under Subsection
    803(a), or to acquire any property in addition to that listed in
    Subsection (a), above, in order to carry out its defense
    responsibilities.
      "Section 803. (a) The Government of the Northern Mariana Islands
    will lease the property described in Subsection 802(a) to the
    Government of the United States for a term of fifty years, and the
    Government of the United States will have the option of renewing
    this lease for all or part of such property for an additional term
    of fifty years if it so desires at the end of the first term.
      "(b) The Government of the United States will pay to the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands in full settlement of
    this lease, including the second fifty year term of the lease if
    extended under the renewal option, the total sum of $19,520,600,
    determined as follows:
        "(1) for that property on Tinian Island, $17.5 million;
        "(2) for that property at Tanapag Harbor on Saipan Island, $2
      million; and
        "(3) for that property known as Farallon de Medinilla, $20,600.
    The sum stated in this Subsection will be adjusted by a percentage
    which will be the same as the percentage change in the United
    States Department of Commerce composite price index from the date
    of signing the Covenant.
      "(c) A separate Technical Agreement Regarding Use of Land To Be
    Leased by the United States in the Northern Mariana Islands will be
    executed simultaneously with this Covenant. The terms of the lease
    to the United States will be in accordance with this Section and
    with the terms of the Technical Agreement. The Technical Agreement
    will also contain terms relating to the leaseback of property, to
    the joint use arrangements for San Jose Harbor and West Field on
    Tinian Island, and to the principles which will govern the social
    structure relations between the United States military and the
    Northern Mariana Islands civil authorities.
      "(d) From the property to be leased to it in accordance with this
    Covenant the Government of the United States will lease back to the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands, in accordance with the
    Technical Agreement, for the sum of one dollar per acre per year,
    approximately 6,458 acres (2,614 hectares) on Tinian Island and
    approximately 44 acres (18 hectares) at Tanapag Harbor on Saipan
    Island, which will be used for purposes compatible with their
    intended military use.
      "(e) From the property to be leased to it at Tanapag Harbor on
    Saipan Island the Government of the United States will make
    available to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands 133
    acres (54 hectares) at no cost. This property will be set aside for
    public use as an American memorial park to honor the American and
    Marianas dead in the World War II Marianas Campaign. The $2 million
    received from the Government of the United States for the lease of
    this property will be placed into a trust fund, and used for the
    development and maintenance of the park in accordance with the
    Technical Agreement.
      "Section 804. (a) The Government of the United States will cause
    all agreements between it and the Government of the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands which grant to the Government of the United
    States use or other rights in real property in the Northern Mariana
    Islands to be terminated upon or before the effective date of the
    Section. All right, title and interest of the Government of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in and to any real property
    with respect to which the Government of the United States enjoys
    such use or other rights will be transferred to the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands at the time of such termination. From
    the time such right, title and interest is so transferred the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands will assure the
    Government of the United States the continued use of the real
    property then actively used by the Government of the United States
    for civilian governmental purposes on terms comparable to those
    enjoyed by the Government of the United States under its
    arrangements with the Government of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands on the date of the signature of this Covenant.
      "(b) All facilities at Isely Field developed with federal aid and
    all facilities at that field usable for the landing and take-off of
    aircraft will be available to the United States for use by military
    and naval aircraft, in common with other aircraft, at all times
    without charge, except, if the use by military and naval aircraft
    shall be substantial, a reasonable share, proportional to such use,
    of the cost of operating and maintaining the facilities so used may
    be charged at a rate established by agreement between the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands and the Government of
    the United States.
      "Section 805. Except as otherwise provided in this Article, and
    notwithstanding the other provisions of this Covenant, or those
    provisions of the Constitution, treaties or laws of the United
    States applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands, the Government
    of the Northern Mariana Islands, in view of the importance of the
    ownership of land for the culture and traditions of the people of
    the Northern Mariana Islands, and in order to protect them against
    exploitation and to promote their economic advancement and self-
    sufficiency:
        "(a) will until twenty-five years after the termination of the
      Trusteeship Agreement, and may thereafter, regulate the
      alienation of permanent and long-term interests in real property
      so as to restrict the acquisition of such interests to persons of
      Northern Mariana Islands descent; and
        "(b) may regulate the extent to which a person may own or hold
      land which is now public land.
      "Section 806. (a) The United States will continue to recognize
    and respect the scarcity and special importance of land in the
    Northern Mariana Islands. If the United States must acquire any
    interest in real property not transferred to it under this
    Covenant, it will follow the policy of seeking to acquire only the
    minimum area necessary to accomplish the public purpose for which
    the real property is required, of seeking only the minimum interest
    in real property necessary to support such public purpose,
    acquiring title only if the public purpose cannot be accomplished
    if a lesser interest is obtained, and of seeking first to satisfy
    its requirement by acquiring an interest in public rather than
    private real property.
      "(b) The United States may, upon prior written notice to the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands, acquire for public
    purposes in accordance with federal laws and procedures any
    interest in real property in the Northern Mariana Islands by
    purchase, lease, exchange, gift or otherwise under such terms and
    conditions as may be negotiated by the parties. The United States
    will in all cases attempt to acquire any interest in real property
    for public purposes by voluntary means under this Subsection before
    exercising the power of eminent domain. No interest in real
    property will be acquired unless duly authorized by the Congress of
    the United States and appropriations are available therefor.
      "(c) In the event it is not possible for the United States to
    obtain an interest in real property for public purposes by
    voluntary means, it may exercise within the Commonwealth the power
    of eminent domain to the same extent and in the same manner as it
    has and can exercise the power of eminent domain in a State of the
    Union. The power of eminent domain will be exercised within the
    Commonwealth only to the extent necessary and in compliance with
    applicable United States laws, and with full recognition of the due
    process required by the United States Constitution.

                                "ARTICLE IX                            

         "NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS REPRESENTATIVE AND CONSULTATION     
      "Section 901. The Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana
    Islands may provide for the appointment or election of a Resident
    Representative to the United States, whose term of office will be
    two years, unless otherwise determined by local law, and who will
    be entitled to receive official recognition as such Representative
    by all of the departments and agencies of the Government of the
    United States upon presentation through the Department of State of
    a certificate of selection from the Governor. The Representative
    must be a citizen and resident of the Northern Mariana Islands, at
    least twenty-five years of age, and, after termination of the
    Trusteeship Agreement, a citizen of the United States.
      "Section 902. The Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Northern Mariana Islands will consult regularly
    on all matters affecting the relationship between them. At the
    request of either Government, and not less frequently than every
    ten years, the President of the United States and the Governor of
    the Northern Mariana Islands will designate special representatives
    to meet and to consider in good faith such issues affecting the
    relationship between the Northern Mariana Islands and the United
    States as may be designated by either Government and to make a
    report and recommendations with respect thereto. Special
    representatives will be appointed in any event to consider and to
    make recommendations regarding future multi-year financial
    assistance to the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to Section 701,
    to meet at least one year prior to the expiration of every period
    of such financial assistance.
      "Section 903. Nothing herein shall prevent the presentation of
    cases or controversies arising under this Covenant to courts
    established by the Constitution or laws of the United States. It is
    intended that any such cases or controversies will be justifiable
    in such courts and that the undertakings by the Government of the
    United States and by the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands
    provided for in this Covenant will be enforceable in such courts.
      "Section 904. (a) The Government of the United States will give
    sympathetic consideration to the views of the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands on international matters directly
    affecting the Northern Mariana Islands and will provide
    opportunities for the effective presentation of such views to no
    less extent than such opportunities are provided to any other
    territory or possession under comparable circumstances.
      "(b) The United States will assist and facilitate the
    establishment by the Northern Mariana Islands of offices in the
    United States and abroad to promote local tourism and other
    economic or cultural interests of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "(c) On its request the Northern Mariana Islands may participate
    in regional and other international organizations concerned with
    social, economic, educational, scientific, technical and cultural
    matters when similar participation is authorized for any other
    territory or possession of the United States under comparable
    circumstances.

                                "ARTICLE X                            

                "APPROVAL, EFFECTIVE DATES, AND DEFINITIONS            
      "Section 1001. (a) This Covenant will be submitted to the Mariana
    Islands District Legislature for its approval. After its approval
    by the Mariana Islands District Legislature, this Covenant will be
    submitted to the people of the Northern Mariana Islands for
    approval in a plebiscite to be called by the United States. Only
    persons who are domiciled exclusively in the Northern Mariana
    Islands and who meet such other qualifications, including timely
    registration, as are promulgated by the United States as
    administering authority will be eligible to vote in the plebiscite.
    Approval must be by a majority of at least 55% of the valid votes
    cast in the plebiscite. The results of the plebiscite will be
    certified to the President of the United States.
      "(b) This Covenant will be approved by the United States in
    accordance with its constitutional processes and will thereupon
    become law.
      "Section 1002. The President of the United States will issue a
    proclamation announcing the termination of the Trusteeship
    Agreement, or the date on which the Trusteeship Agreement will
    terminate, and the establishment of the Commonwealth in accordance
    with this Covenant. Any determination by the President that the
    Trusteeship Agreement has been terminated or will be terminated on
    a day certain will be final and will not be subject to review by
    any authority, judicial or otherwise, of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands or the United States.
      "Section 1003. The provisions of this Covenant will become
    effective as follows, unless otherwise specifically provided:
        "(a) Sections 105, 201-203, 503, 504, 606, 801, 903 and Article
      X will become effective on approval of this Covenant;
        "(b) Sections 102, 103, 204, 304, Article IV, Sections 501,
      502, 505, 601-605, 607, Article VII, Sections 802-805, 901 and
      902 will become effective on a date to be determined and
      proclaimed by the President of the United States which will be
      not more than 180 days after this Covenant and the Constitution
      of the Northern Mariana Islands have both been approved; and
        "(c) The remainder of this Covenant will become effective upon
      the termination of the Trusteeship Agreement and the
      establishment of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
      Islands.
      "Section 1004. (a) The application of any provision of the
    Constitution or laws of the United States which would otherwise
    apply to the Northern Mariana Islands may be suspended until
    termination of the Trusteeship Agreement if the President finds and
    declares that the application of such provision prior to
    termination would be inconsistent with the Trusteeship Agreement.
      "(b) The Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands will become
    effective in accordance with its terms on the same day that the
    provisions of this Covenant specified in Subsection 1003(b) become
    effective, provided that if the President finds and declares that
    the effectiveness of any provision of the Constitution of the
    Northern Mariana Islands prior to termination of the Trusteeship
    Agreement would be inconsistent with the Trusteeship Agreement such
    provision will be ineffective until termination of the Trusteeship
    Agreement. Upon the establishment of the Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands the Constitution will become effective in
    its entirety in accordance with its terms as the Constitution of
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "Section 1005. As used in this Covenant:
        "(a) 'Trusteeship Agreement' means the Trusteeship Agreement
      for the former Japanese Mandated Islands concluded between the
      Security Council of the United Nations and the United States of
      America, which entered into force on July 18, 1947;
        "(b) 'Northern Mariana Islands' means the area now known as the
      Mariana Islands District of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, which lies within the area north of 14&#186;<!--
      degrees --> north latitude, south of 21&#186;<!-- degrees -->
      north latitude, west of 150&#186;<!-- degrees --> east
      longitude and east of 144&#186;<!-- degrees --> east
      longitude;
        "(c) 'Government of the Northern Mariana Islands' includes, as
      appropriate, the Government of the Mariana Islands District of
      the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands at the time this
      Covenant is signed, its agencies and instrumentalities, and its
      successors, including the Government of the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands;
        "(d) 'Territory or possession' with respect to the United
      States includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
      Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa;
        "(e) 'Domicile' means that place where a person maintains a
      residence with the intention of continuing such residence for an
      unlimited or indefinite period, and to which such person has the
      intention of returning whenever he is absent, even for an
      extended period.
      "Signed at Saipan, Mariana Islands on the fifteenth day of
    February, 1975.
      "For the people of the Northern Mariana Islands:
                                               Edward DLG. Pangelinan,  
                                                     Chairman, Marianas 
                                            Political Status Commission.
                                                    Vicente N. Santos.  
                                                Vice Chairman, Marianas 
                                            Political Status Commission.

      "For the United States of America:
                                         Ambassador F. Haydn Williams,  
                                         Personal Representative of the 
                                         President of the United States.

      "Members of the Marianas Political Status Commission:

                 Juan LG. Cabrera.
                 Vicente T. Camacho.
                 Jose R. Cruz.
                 Bernard V. Hofschneider.
                 Benjamin T. Manglona.
                 Daniel T. Muna.
                 Dr. Francisco T. Palacios.
                 Joaquin I. Pangelinan.
                 Manuel A. Sablan.
                 Joannes B. Taimanao.
                 Pedro A. Tenorio."
      [Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(g)(2), May 8, 2008, 122
    Stat. 864, provided that: "The amendments made by paragraph (1)
    [amending Covenant set out above] shall take effect on the
    transition program effective date described in section 6 of Public
    Law 94-241 [48 U.S.C. 1806] (as added by subsection (a))."]


-EXEC-
         PROC. NO. 4534. CONSTITUTION OF NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS     
      Proc. No. 4534, Oct. 24, 1977, 42 F.R. 56593, provided:
      On February 15, 1975, the Marianas Political Status Commission,
    the duly appointed representative of the people of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, and the Personal Representative of the President
    of the United States signed a Covenant, the purpose of which is to
    provide for the eventual establishment of a Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands in political union with the United States
    of America [set out above]. This Covenant was subsequently approved
    by the Mariana Islands District Legislature and by the people of
    the Northern Mariana Islands voting in a plebiscite. The Covenant
    was approved by the Congress of the United States by joint
    resolution approved March 24, 1976 (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat.
    263) [48 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.].
      In accordance with the provisions of Article II of the Covenant,
    the people of the Northern Mariana Islands have formulated and
    approved a Constitution which was submitted to me on behalf of the
    Government of the United States on April 21, 1977, for approval on
    the basis of its consistency with the Covenant and those provisions
    of the Constitution, treaties and laws of the United States to be
    applicable to the Northern Mariana Islands. Pursuant to the
    provisions of Section 202 of the Covenant, the Constitution of the
    Northern Mariana Islands will be deemed to have been approved by
    the Government of the United States six months after the date of
    submission to the President unless sooner approved or disapproved.
      The six-month period of Section 202 of the Covenant having
    expired on October 22, 1977, I am pleased to announce that the
    Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands is hereby deemed
    approved.
      I am satisfied that the Constitution of the Northern Mariana
    Islands complies with the requirements of Article II of the
    Covenant. I have also received advice from the Senate Committee on
    Energy and Natural Resources and the Subcommittee on National Parks
    and Insular Affairs of the House Committee on Interior and Insular
    Affairs that the Constitution complies with those requirements.
      Sections 1003(b) and 1004(b) of the Covenant provide that the
    Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands and the provisions
    specified in Section 1003(b) of the Covenant shall become effective
    on a date proclaimed by the President which will be not more than
    180 days after the Covenant and the Constitution of the Northern
    Mariana Islands have both been approved.
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, JIMMY CARTER, President of the United States
    of America, do hereby proclaim as follows:
      Section 1. The Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands shall
    come into full force and effect at eleven o'clock on the morning of
    January 9, 1978, Northern Mariana Islands local time.
      Sec. 2. Sections 102, 103, 204, 304, Article IV, Sections 501,
    502, 505, 601-605, 607, Article VII, Sections 802-805, 901 and 902
    of the Covenant shall come into full force and effect on the date
    and at the time specified in Section 1 of this Proclamation.
      Sec. 3. The authority of the President under Section 1004 of the
    Covenant to suspend the application of any provision of law to or
    in the Northern Mariana Islands until the termination of the
    Trusteeship Agreement is hereby reserved.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-
    fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
    seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of
    America the two hundred and second.
                                                           Jimmy Carter.

                           PROCLAMATION NO. 4568                       
      Proc. No. 4568, May 9, 1978, 43 F.R. 19999, related to
    application of certain United States laws to the Northern Mariana
    Islands until termination of Trusteeship Agreement.

                           PROCLAMATION NO. 4726                       
      Proc. No. 4726, Feb. 21, 1980, 45 F.R. 12369, related to
    application of certain United States laws to the Northern Mariana
    Islands until termination of Trusteeship Agreement.

                           PROCLAMATION NO. 4938                       
      Proc. No. 4938, May 3, 1982, 47 F.R. 19307, related to
    application of certain United States laws to the Northern Mariana
    Islands until termination of Trusteeship Agreement.

                           PROCLAMATION NO. 5207                       
      Proc. No. 5207, June 7, 1984, 49 F.R. 24365, related to
    application of certain laws of the United States to citizens of the
    Northern Mariana Islands until establishment of Commonwealth of
    Northern Mariana Islands.

    PROC. NO. 5564. COVENANT WITH COMMONWEALTH OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA
    ISLANDS, AND COMPACTS OF FREE ASSOCIATION WITH FEDERATED STATES OF
     MICRONESIA AND REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS; EFFECTIVE DATES
      Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, provided:
      Since July 18, 1947, the United States has administered the
    United Nations Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands ("Trust
    Territory"), which includes the Northern Mariana Islands, the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
      On February 15, 1975, after extensive status negotiations, the
    United States and the Marianas Political Status Commission
    concluded a Covenant to establish a Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States
    ("Covenant") [set out above]. Sections 101, 1002, and 1003(c) of
    the Covenant provide that the Northern Mariana Islands will become
    a self-governing Commonwealth in political union with and under the
    sovereignty of the United States. This Covenant was approved by the
    Congress by Public Law 94-241 of March 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263 [48
    U.S.C. 1801 et seq.]. Although many sections of the Covenant became
    effective in 1976 and 1978, certain sections have not previously
    entered into force.
      On October 1, 1982, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia concluded a
    Compact of Free Association, establishing a relationship of Free
    Association between the two Governments [see Compact of Free
    Association, 48 U.S.C. 1901 note]. On June 25, 1983, the Government
    of the United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands
    concluded a Compact of Free Association, establishing a
    relationship of Free Association between the two Governments [see
    Compact of Free Association, 48 U.S.C. 1901 note]. Pursuant to
    Sections 111 and 121 of the Compacts, the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands become self-
    governing and have the right to conduct foreign affairs in their
    own name and right upon the effective date of their respective
    Compacts. Each Compact comes into effect upon (1) mutual agreement
    between the Government of the United States, acting in fulfillment
    of its responsibilities as Administering Authority of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the other Government; (2) the
    approval of the Compact by the two Governments, in accordance with
    their constitutional processes; and (3) the conduct of a plebiscite
    in that jurisdiction. In the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    Compact has been approved by the Government in accordance with its
    constitutional processes, and in a United Nations-observed
    plebiscite on June 21, 1983, a sovereign act of self-determination.
    In the Marshall Islands, the Compact has been approved by the
    Government in accordance with its constitutional processes, and in
    a United Nations-observed plebiscite on September 7, 1983, a
    sovereign act of self-determination. In the United States the
    Compacts have been approved by Public Law 99-239 of January 14,
    1986, 99 Stat. 1770 [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.].
      On January 10, 1986, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of Palau concluded a Compact of Free
    Association, establishing a similar relationship of Free
    Association between the two Governments [48 U.S.C. 1931 note]. On
    October 16, 1986, the Congress of the United States approved the
    Compact of Free Association with the Republic of Palau. In the
    Republic of Palau, the Compact approval process has not yet been
    completed. Until the future political status of Palau is resolved,
    the United States will continue to discharge its responsibilities
    in Palau as Administering Authority under the Trusteeship
    Agreement.
      On May 28, 1986, the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations
    concluded that the Government of the United States had
    satisfactorily discharged its obligations as the Administering
    Authority under the terms of the Trusteeship Agreement and that the
    people of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of
    Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands had freely
    exercised their right to self-determination, and considered that it
    was appropriate for that Agreement to be terminated. The Council
    asked the United States to consult with the governments concerned
    to agree on a date for entry into force of their respective new
    status agreements.
      On October 15, 1986, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands agreed, pursuant
    to Section 411 of the Compact of Free Association, that as between
    the United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
    effective date of the Compact shall be October 21, 1986.
      On October 24, 1986, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia agreed, pursuant
    to Section 411 of the Compact of Free Association, that as between
    the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    effective date of the Compact shall be November 3, 1986.
      On October 24, 1986, the United States advised the Secretary
    General of the United Nations that, as a consequence of
    consultations held between the United States Government and the
    Government of the Marshall Islands, agreement had been reached that
    the Compact of Free Association with the Marshall Islands entered
    fully into force on October 21, 1986. The United States further
    advised the Secretary General that, as a result of consultations
    with their governments, agreement had been reached that the Compact
    of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Covenant with the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
    would enter into force on November 3, 1986.
      As of this day, November 3, 1986, the United States has fulfilled
    its obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement with respect to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia, and they
    are self-governing and no longer subject to the Trusteeship. In
    taking these actions, the United States is implementing the freely
    expressed wishes of the peoples of the Northern Mariana Islands,
    the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Marshall Islands.
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, RONALD REAGAN, by the authority vested in me
    as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of
    America, including Section 1002 of the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, and Sections 101 and 102 of the
    Joint Resolution to approve the "Compact of Free Association", and
    for other purposes, approved on January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.], do hereby find,
    declare, and proclaim as follows:
      Section 1. I determine that the Trusteeship Agreement for the
    Pacific Islands is no longer in effect as of October 21, 1986, with
    respect to the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as of November 3,
    1986, with respect to the Federated States of Micronesia, and as of
    November 3, 1986, with respect to the Northern Mariana Islands.
    This constitutes the determination referred to in Section 1002 of
    the Covenant.
      Sec. 2. (a) Sections 101, 104, 301, 302, 303, 506, 806, and 904
    of the Covenant are effective as of 12:01 a.m., November 4, 1986,
    Northern Mariana Islands local time.
      (b) The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in political
    union with and under the sovereignty of the United States of
    America is fully established on the date and at the time specified
    in Section 2(a) of this Proclamation.
      (c) The domiciliaries of the Northern Mariana Islands are
    citizens of the United States to the extent provided for in
    Sections 301 through 303 of the Covenant on the date and at the
    time specified in this Proclamation.
      (d) I welcome the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
    into the American family and congratulate our new fellow citizens.
      Sec. 3. (a) The Compact of Free Association with the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands is in full force and effect as of October 21,
    1986, and the Compact of Free Association with the Federated States
    of Micronesia is in full force and effect as of November 3, 1986.
      (b) I am gratified that the people of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, after nearly
    forty years of Trusteeship, have freely chosen to establish a
    relationship of Free Association with the United States.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
    November, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six,
    and of the Independence of the United States of America the two
    hundred and eleventh.
                                                          Ronald Reagan.

        EX. ORD. NO. 12572. RELATIONS WITH NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS    
      Ex. Ord. No. 12572, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40401, provided:
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
    and laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered
    that, consistent with the Joint Resolution to approve the "Covenant
    To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union with the United States of America," approved March
    24, 1976 (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 263) [48 U.S.C. 1801 et
    seq.], the relations of the United States with the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands shall, in all matters not the program
    responsibility of another Federal department or agency, be under
    the general administrative supervision of the Secretary of the
    Interior.
                                                          Ronald Reagan.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1802                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1802. Consideration of issues affecting relations with United
      States

-STATUTE-
      It is the sense of the Congress that pursuant to section 902 of
    the foregoing Covenant, and in any case within ten years from March
    24, 1976, the President of the United States should request, on
    behalf of the United States, the designation of special
    representatives to meet and to consider in good faith such issues
    affecting the relationship between the Northern Mariana Islands and
    the United States as may be designated by either Government and to
    make a report and recommendations with respect thereto.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 2, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 279.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1803                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1803. Financial assistance to Government of Northern Mariana
      Islands

-STATUTE-
      Pursuant to section 701 of the foregoing Covenant, enactment of
    this section shall constitute a commitment and pledge of the full
    faith and credit of the United States for the payment of $228
    million at guaranteed annual amounts of direct grant assistance for
    the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands for an additional
    period of seven fiscal years after the expiration of the initial
    seven-year period specified in section 702 of said Covenant, which
    assistance shall be provided according to the schedule of payments
    contained in the Agreement of the Special Representatives on Future
    United States Financial Assistance for the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, executed July 10, 1985, between the
    special representative of the President of the United States and
    the special representatives of the Governor of the Northern Mariana
    Islands. The islands of Rota and Tinian shall each receive no less
    than a  1/8  share and the island of Saipan shall receive no less
    than a  1/4  share of annualized capital improvement project funds,
    which shall be no less than 80 per centum of the capital
    development funds identified in the schedule of payments in
    paragraph 2 of part II of the Agreement of the Special
    Representatives. Funds shall be granted according to such
    regulations as are applicable to such grants.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 3, as added Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 10, Aug. 27,
    1986, 100 Stat. 840.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
      USE OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOAN FUNDS FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT
                                 PROJECTS
      Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 2, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 838, authorized
    use of up to $4,000,000 of funds reserved for use by the economic
    development loan fund, as established under section 702(c) of the
    Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, 48
    U.S.C. 1801 note, for capital improvement projects, if such funds
    became available for use by the economic development loan fund, and
    were not obligated for economic development loans.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1804                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1804. Direct grant assistance

-STATUTE-
    (a) Composite price index adjustments not applicable
      Section 704(c) of the foregoing Covenant shall not apply to the
    Federal financial assistance which is provided to the Government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to section 1803 of this
    title.
    (b) Additional years of assistance
      Upon the expiration of the period of Federal financial assistance
    which is provided to the Government of the Northern Mariana Islands
    pursuant to section 1803 of this title, payments of direct grant
    assistance shall continue at the annual level provided for the last
    fiscal year of the additional period of seven fiscal years except
    that, for fiscal years 1996 through 1999, payments to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to the multi-
    year funding agreements contemplated under the Covenant shall be
    $11,000,000 annually and for fiscal year 2000, payments to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,580,000,
    but shall return to the level of $11,000,000 annually for fiscal
    years 2001 and 2002. In fiscal year 2003, the payment to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,420,000.
    Such payments shall be subject to an equal local match and all
    other requirements set forth in the Agreement of the Special
    Representatives on Future Federal Financial Assistance of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, executed on December 17, 1992 between the
    special representative of the President of the United States and
    special representatives of the Governor of the Northern Mariana
    Islands with any additional amounts otherwise made available under
    this section in any fiscal year and not required to meet the
    schedule of payments in this subsection to be provided as set forth
    in subsection (c) of this section until Congress otherwise provides
    by law.
    (c) Specific allocations for capital infrastructure projects
      The additional amounts referred to in subsection (b) of this
    section shall be made available to the Secretary for obligation as
    follows:
        (1) for fiscal years 1996 through 2001, $4,580,000 annually for
      capital infrastructure projects as Impact Aid for Guam under
      section 1904(e)(6) (!1) of this title;

        (2) for fiscal year 1996, $7,700,000 shall be provided for
      capital infrastructure projects in American Samoa; $4,420,000 for
      resettlement of Rongelap Atoll; and (!2)

        (3) for fiscal years 1997 and thereafter, all such amounts
      shall be available solely for capital infrastructure projects in
      Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Federated
      States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
      except that $200,000 in fiscal year 2009 and $225,000 annually
      for fiscal years 2010 through 2018 are hereby rescinded;
      Provided, That the amount rescinded shall be increased by the
      same percentage as that of the annual salary and benefit
      adjustments for Members of Congress (!3) Provided, That, in
      fiscal year 1997, $3,000,000 of such amounts shall be made
      available to the College of the Northern Marianas and beginning
      in fiscal year 1997, and in each year thereafter, not to exceed
      $3,000,000 may be allocated, as provided in appropriations Acts,
      to the Secretary of the Interior for use by Federal agencies or
      the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands to address
      immigration, labor, and law enforcement issues in the Northern
      Mariana Islands. The specific projects to be funded in American
      Samoa shall be set forth in a five-year plan for infrastructure
      assistance developed by the Secretary of the Interior in
      consultation with the American Samoa Government and updated
      annually and submitted to the Congress concurrent with the budget
      justifications for the Department of the Interior. In developing
      budget recommendations for capital infrastructure funding, the
      Secretary shall indicate the highest priority projects, consider
      the extent to which particular projects are part of an overall
      master plan, whether such project has been reviewed by the Corps
      of Engineers and any recommendations made as a result of such
      review, the extent to which a set-aside for maintenance would
      enhance the life of the project, the degree to which a local cost-
      share requirement would be consistent with local economic and
      fiscal capabilities, and may propose an incremental set-aside,
      not to exceed $2,000,000 per year, to remain available without
      fiscal year limitation, as an emergency fund in the event of
      natural or other disasters to supplement other assistance in the
      repair, replacement, or hardening of essential facilities:
      Provided further, That the cumulative amount set aside for such
      emergency fund may not exceed $10,000,000 at any time.(!4)


        (4) for fiscal year 2000, $5,420,000 shall be provided to the
      Virgin Islands for correctional facilities and other projects
      mandated by Federal law.
    (d) Resettlement of Rongelap Atoll
      Within the amounts allocated for infrastructure pursuant to this
    section, and subject to the specific allocations made in subsection
    (c) of this section, additional contributions may be made, as set
    forth in appropriations Acts, to assist in the resettlement of
    Rongelap Atoll: Provided, That the total of all contributions from
    any Federal source after April 26, 1996, may not exceed $32,000,000
    and shall be contingent upon an agreement, satisfactory to the
    President, that such contributions are a full and final settlement
    of all obligations of the United States to assist in the
    resettlement of Rongelop (!5) Atoll and that such funds will be
    expended solely on resettlement activities and will be properly
    audited and accounted for. In order to provide such contributions
    in a timely manner, each Federal agency providing assistance or
    services, or conducting activities, in the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, is authorized to make funds available through the
    Secretary of the Interior, to assist in the resettlement of
    Rongelap. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to limit
    the provision of ex gratia assistance pursuant to section
    1905(c)(2) of this title including for individuals choosing not to
    resettle at Rongelap, except that no such assistance for such
    individuals may be provided until the Secretary notifies the
    Congress that the full amount of all funds necessary for
    resettlement at Rongelap has been provided.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 4, as added Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 10, Aug. 27,
    1986, 100 Stat. 841; amended Pub. L. 104-134, title I, Sec. 101(c)
    [title I, Sec. 118], Apr. 26, 1996, 110 Stat. 1321-156, 1321-178;
    renumbered title I, Pub. L. 104-140, Sec. 1(a), May 2, 1996, 110
    Stat. 1327; Pub. L. 106-113, div. B, Sec. 1000(a)(3) [title I],
    Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1535, 1501A-152; Pub. L. 110-229, title
    VII, Sec. 703, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 867.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in subsec. (a), is the Covenant to
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union with the United States of America, which is
    contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under
    section 1801 of this title.
      Section 1904(e)(6) of this title, referred to in subsec. (c)(1),
    was in the original "section 104(c)(6) of Public Law 99-239", which
    was translated as meaning section 104(e)(6) of Pub. L. 99-239 to
    reflect the probable intent of Congress, because section 1904(c)
    does not contain pars. and section 1904(e)(6) relates to impact
    aid.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.
      April 26, 1996, referred to in subsec. (d), was in the original
    "enactment of this Act", which was translated as meaning the date
    of enactment of Pub. L. 104-134, which added subsec. (d) of this
    section, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (c)(3). Pub. L. 110-229 substituted "Marshall
    Islands, except that $200,000 in fiscal year 2009 and $225,000
    annually for fiscal years 2010 through 2018 are hereby rescinded;
    Provided, That the amount rescinded shall be increased by the same
    percentage as that of the annual salary and benefit adjustments for
    Members of Congress" for "Marshall Islands:".
      1999 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 106-113 substituted "fiscal years
    1996 through 1999" for "fiscal years 1996 through 2002" and
    "$11,000,000 annually and for fiscal year 2000, payments to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,580,000,
    but shall return to the level of $11,000,000 annually for fiscal
    years 2001 and 2002. In fiscal year 2003, the payment to the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall be $5,420,000.
    Such payments shall be" for "$11,000,000 annually,".
      Subsec. (c)(4). Pub. L. 106-113 added par. (4).
      1996 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 104-134 substituted "except that, for
    fiscal years 1996 through 2002, payments to the Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands pursuant to the multi-year funding
    agreements contemplated under the Covenant shall be $11,000,000
    annually, subject to an equal local match and all other
    requirements set forth in the Agreement of the Special
    Representatives on Future Federal Financial Assistance of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, executed on December 17, 1992 between the
    special representative of the President of the United States and
    special representatives of the Governor of the Northern Mariana
    Islands with any additional amounts otherwise made available under
    this section in any fiscal year and not required to meet the
    schedule of payments in this subsection to be provided as set forth
    in subsection (c) of this section until Congress otherwise provides
    by law." for "until Congress otherwise provides by law."
      Subsecs. (c), (d). Pub. L. 104-134 added subsecs. (c) and (d).

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.

               

    (!2) So in original. The word "and" probably should not appear.

               

    (!3) So in original. Probably should be followed by a colon.

    (!4) So in original. The period probably should be "; and".

    (!5) So in original. Probably should be "Rongelap".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1805                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1805. Failure to meet performance standards; resolution of
      issues; withholding of funds

-STATUTE-
      Should the Secretary of the Interior believe that the performance
    standards of the agreement identified in section 1803 of this title
    are not being met, he shall notify the Government of the Northern
    Mariana Islands in writing with the intent to resolve such issue in
    a mutually agreeable and expeditious manner and notify the
    Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of
    Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
    of the Senate. Should the issue not be resolved within thirty days
    after the notification is received by the Government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, the Secretary of the Interior may request
    authority from Congress to withhold payment of an appropriate
    amount of the operations funds identified in the schedule of
    payments in paragraph 2 of part II of the Agreement of the Special
    Representatives for a period of less than one year but no funds
    shall be withheld except by Act of Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 5, as added Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 10, Aug. 27,
    1986, 100 Stat. 841.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of
    Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House
    of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third
    Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1806                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1806. Immigration and transition

-STATUTE-
    (a) Application of the Immigration and Nationality Act and
      establishment of a transition program
      (1) In general
        Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), effective on the first day
      of the first full month commencing 1 year after May 8, 2008
      (hereafter referred to as the "transition program effective
      date"), the provisions of the "immigration laws" (as defined in
      section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
      U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) shall apply to the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands (referred to in this section as the
      "Commonwealth"), except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (2) Transition period
        There shall be a transition period beginning on the transition
      program effective date and ending on December 31, 2014, except as
      provided in subsections (b) and (d), during which the Secretary
      of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of
      State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, and the
      Secretary of the Interior, shall establish, administer, and
      enforce a transition program to regulate immigration to the
      Commonwealth, as provided in this section (hereafter referred to
      as the "transition program").
      (3) Delay of commencement of transition period
        (A) In general
          The Secretary of Homeland Security, in the Secretary's sole
        discretion, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior,
        the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of State, the Attorney
        General, and the Governor of the Commonwealth, may determine
        that the transition program effective date be delayed for a
        period not to exceed more than 180 days after such date.
        (B) Congressional notification
          The Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the Congress
        of a determination under subparagraph (A) not later than 30
        days prior to the transition program effective date.
        (C) Congressional review
          A delay of the transition program effective date shall not
        take effect until 30 days after the date on which the
        notification under subparagraph (B) is made.
      (4) Requirement for regulations
        The transition program shall be implemented pursuant to
      regulations to be promulgated, as appropriate, by the head of
      each agency or department of the United States having
      responsibilities under the transition program.
      (5) Interagency agreements
        The Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of State, the
      Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of the Interior shall
      negotiate and implement agreements among their agencies to
      identify and assign their respective duties so as to ensure
      timely and proper implementation of the provisions of this
      section. The agreements should address, at a minimum, procedures
      to ensure that Commonwealth employers have access to adequate
      labor, and that tourists, students, retirees, and other visitors
      have access to the Commonwealth without unnecessary delay or
      impediment. The agreements may also allocate funding between the
      respective agencies tasked with various responsibilities under
      this section.
      (6) Certain education funding
        In addition to fees charged pursuant to section 286(m) of the
      Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1356(m)) to recover the
      full costs of providing adjudication services, the Secretary of
      Homeland Security shall charge an annual supplemental fee of $150
      per nonimmigrant worker to each prospective employer who is
      issued a permit under subsection (d) of this section during the
      transition period. Such supplemental fee shall be paid into the
      Treasury of the Commonwealth government for the purpose of
      funding ongoing vocational educational curricula and program
      development by Commonwealth educational entities.
      (7) Asylum
        Section 208 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
      1158) shall not apply during the transition period to persons
      physically present in the Commonwealth or arriving in the
      Commonwealth (whether or not at a designated port of arrival),
      including persons brought to the Commonwealth after having been
      interdicted in international or United States waters.
    (b) Numerical limitations for nonimmigrant workers
      An alien, if otherwise qualified, may seek admission to Guam or
    to the Commonwealth during the transition program as a nonimmigrant
    worker under section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and
    Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)) without counting against
    the numerical limitations set forth in section 214(g) of such Act
    (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)). This subsection does not apply to any
    employment to be performed outside of Guam or the Commonwealth. Not
    later than 3 years following the transition program effective date,
    the Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue a report to the
    Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on the
    Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources and
    the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives
    projecting the number of asylum claims the Secretary anticipates
    following the termination of the transition period, the efforts the
    Secretary has made to ensure appropriate interdiction efforts,
    provide for appropriate treatment of asylum seekers, and prepare to
    accept and adjudicate asylum claims in the Commonwealth.
    (c) Nonimmigrant investor visas
      (1) In general
        Notwithstanding the treaty requirements in section
      101(a)(15)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
      1101(a)(15)(E)), during the transition period, the Secretary of
      Homeland Security may, upon the application of an alien, classify
      an alien as a CNMI-only nonimmigrant under section
      101(a)(15)(E)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
      U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(E)(ii)) if the alien - 
          (A) has been admitted to the Commonwealth in long-term
        investor status under the immigration laws of the Commonwealth
        before the transition program effective date;
          (B) has continuously maintained residence in the Commonwealth
        under long-term investor status;
          (C) is otherwise admissible; and
          (D) maintains the investment or investments that formed the
        basis for such long-term investor status.
      (2) Requirement for regulations
        Not later than 60 days before the transition program effective
      date, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall publish
      regulations in the Federal Register to implement this subsection.
    (d) Special provision to ensure adequate employment; Commonwealth
      only transitional workers
      An alien who is seeking to enter the Commonwealth as a
    nonimmigrant worker may be admitted to perform work during the
    transition period subject to the following requirements:
        (1) Such an alien shall be treated as a nonimmigrant described
      in section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
      U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)), including the ability to apply, if otherwise
      eligible, for a change of nonimmigrant classification under
      section 248 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1258) or adjustment of status
      under this section and section 245 of such Act (8 U.S.C. 1255).
        (2) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish,
      administer, and enforce a system for allocating and determining
      the number, terms, and conditions of permits to be issued to
      prospective employers for each such nonimmigrant worker described
      in this subsection who would not otherwise be eligible for
      admission under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
      1101 et seq.). In adopting and enforcing this system, the
      Secretary shall also consider, in good faith and not later than
      30 days after receipt by the Secretary, any comments and advice
      submitted by the Governor of the Commonwealth. This system shall
      provide for a reduction in the allocation of permits for such
      workers on an annual basis to zero, during a period not to extend
      beyond December 31, 2014, unless extended pursuant to paragraph 5
      of this subsection. In no event shall a permit be valid beyond
      the expiration of the transition period. This system may be based
      on any reasonable method and criteria determined by the Secretary
      of Homeland Security to promote the maximum use of, and to
      prevent adverse effects on wages and working conditions of,
      workers authorized to be employed in the United States, including
      lawfully admissible freely associated state citizen labor. No
      alien shall be granted nonimmigrant classification or a visa
      under this subsection unless the permit requirements established
      under this paragraph have been met.
        (3) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall set the conditions
      for admission of such an alien under the transition program, and
      the Secretary of State shall authorize the issuance of
      nonimmigrant visas for such an alien. Such a visa shall not be
      valid for admission to the United States, as defined in section
      101(a)(38) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
      1101(a)(38)), except admission to the Commonwealth. An alien
      admitted to the Commonwealth on the basis of such a visa shall be
      permitted to engage in employment only as authorized pursuant to
      the transition program.
        (4) Such an alien shall be permitted to transfer between
      employers in the Commonwealth during the period of such alien's
      authorized stay therein, without permission of the employee's
      current or prior employer, within the alien's occupational
      category or another occupational category the Secretary of
      Homeland Security has found requires alien workers to supplement
      the resident workforce.
        (5)(A) Not later than 180 days prior to the expiration of the
      transition period, or any extension thereof, the Secretary of
      Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security,
      the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Interior, and the
      Governor of the Commonwealth, shall ascertain the current and
      anticipated labor needs of the Commonwealth and determine whether
      an extension of up to 5 years of the provisions of this
      subsection is necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers
      will be available for legitimate businesses in the Commonwealth.
      For the purpose of this subparagraph, a business shall not be
      considered legitimate if it engages directly or indirectly in
      prostitution, trafficking in minors, or any other activity that
      is illegal under Federal or local law. The determinations of
      whether a business is legitimate and to what extent, if any, it
      may require alien workers to supplement the resident workforce,
      shall be made by the Secretary of Homeland Security, in the
      Secretary's sole discretion.
        (B) If the Secretary of Labor determines that such an extension
      is necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers for
      legitimate businesses in the Commonwealth, the Secretary of Labor
      may, through notice published in the Federal Register, provide
      for an additional extension period of up to 5 years.
        (C) In making the determination of whether alien workers are
      necessary to ensure an adequate number of workers for legitimate
      businesses in the Commonwealth, and if so, the number of such
      workers that are necessary, the Secretary of Labor may consider,
      among other relevant factors - 
          (i) government, industry, or independent workforce studies
        reporting on the need, or lack thereof, for alien workers in
        the Commonwealth's businesses;
          (ii) the unemployment rate of United States citizen workers
        residing in the Commonwealth;
          (iii) the unemployment rate of aliens in the Commonwealth who
        have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
          (iv) the number of unemployed alien workers in the
        Commonwealth;
          (v) any good faith efforts to locate, educate, train, or
        otherwise prepare United States citizen residents, lawful
        permanent residents, and unemployed alien workers already
        within the Commonwealth, to assume those jobs;
          (vi) any available evidence tending to show that United
        States citizen residents, lawful permanent residents, and
        unemployed alien workers already in the Commonwealth are not
        willing to accept jobs of the type offered;
          (vii) the extent to which admittance of alien workers will
        affect the compensation, benefits, and living standards of
        existing workers within those industries and other industries
        authorized to employ alien workers; and
          (viii) the prior use, if any, of alien workers to fill those
        industry jobs, and whether the industry requires alien workers
        to fill those jobs.

        (6) The Secretary of Homeland Security may authorize the
      admission of a spouse or minor child accompanying or following to
      join a worker admitted pursuant to this subsection.
    (e) Persons lawfully admitted under the Commonwealth immigration
      law
      (1) Prohibition on removal
        (A) In general
          Subject to subparagraph (B), no alien who is lawfully present
        in the Commonwealth pursuant to the immigration laws of the
        Commonwealth on the transition program effective date shall be
        removed from the United States on the grounds that such alien's
        presence in the Commonwealth is in violation of section
        212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
        1182(a)(6)(A)), until the earlier of the date - 
            (i) of the completion of the period of the alien's
          admission under the immigration laws of the Commonwealth; or
            (ii) that is 2 years after the transition program effective
          date.
        (B) Limitations
          Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prevent or
        limit the removal under subparagraph 212(a)(6)(A) of the
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(6)(A)) of
        such an alien at any time, if the alien entered the
        Commonwealth after May 8, 2008, and the Secretary of Homeland
        Security has determined that the Government of the Commonwealth
        has violated section 702(i) of the Consolidated Natural
        Resources Act of 2008.
      (2) Employment authorization
        An alien who is lawfully present and authorized to be employed
      in the Commonwealth pursuant to the immigration laws of the
      Commonwealth on the transition program effective date shall be
      considered authorized by the Secretary of Homeland Security to be
      employed in the Commonwealth until the earlier of the date - 
          (A) of expiration of the alien's employment authorization
        under the immigration laws of the Commonwealth; or
          (B) that is 2 years after the transition program effective
        date.
      (3) Registration
        The Secretary of Homeland Security may require any alien
      present in the Commonwealth on or after the transition period
      effective date to register with the Secretary in such a manner,
      and according to such schedule, as he may in his discretion
      require. Paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection shall not
      apply to any alien who fails to comply with such registration
      requirement. Notwithstanding any other law, the Government of the
      Commonwealth shall provide to the Secretary all Commonwealth
      immigration records or other information that the Secretary deems
      necessary to assist the implementation of this paragraph or other
      provisions of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008.
      Nothing in this paragraph shall modify or limit section 262 of
      the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1302) or other
      provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101
      et seq.] relating to the registration of aliens.
      (4) Removable aliens
        Except as specifically provided in paragraph (1)(A) of this
      subsection, nothing in this subsection shall prohibit or limit
      the removal of any alien who is removable under the Immigration
      and Nationality Act.
      (5) Prior orders of removal
        The Secretary of Homeland Security may execute any
      administratively final order of exclusion, deportation or removal
      issued under authority of the immigration laws of the United
      States before, on, or after the transition period effective date,
      or under authority of the immigration laws of the Commonwealth
      before the transition period effective date, upon any subject of
      such order found in the Commonwealth on or after the transition
      period effective date, regardless whether the alien has
      previously been removed from the United States or the
      Commonwealth pursuant to such order.
    (f) Effect on other laws
      The provisions of this section and of the immigration laws, as
    defined in section 101(a)(17) of the Immigration and Nationality
    Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)), shall, on the transition program
    effective date, supersede and replace all laws, provisions, or
    programs of the Commonwealth relating to the admission of aliens
    and the removal of aliens from the Commonwealth.
    (g) Accrual of time for purposes of section 212(a)(9)(B) of the
      Immigration and Nationality Act
      No time that an alien is present in the Commonwealth in violation
    of the immigration laws of the Commonwealth shall be counted for
    purposes of inadmissibility under section 212(a)(9)(B) of the
    Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(9)(B)).
    (h) Report on nonresident guestworker population
      The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary
    of Homeland Security, and the Governor of the Commonwealth, shall
    report to the Congress not later than 2 years after May 8, 2008.
    The report shall include - 
        (1) the number of aliens residing in the Commonwealth;
        (2) a description of the legal status (under Federal law) of
      such aliens;
        (3) the number of years each alien has been residing in the
      Commonwealth;
        (4) the current and future requirements of the Commonwealth
      economy for an alien workforce; and
        (5) such recommendations to the Congress, as the Secretary may
      deem appropriate, related to whether or not the Congress should
      consider permitting lawfully admitted guest workers lawfully
      residing in the Commonwealth on May 8, 2008, to apply for long-
      term status under the immigration and nationality laws of the
      United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 94-241, Sec. 6, as added Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec.
    702(a), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 854.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in subsecs. (a),
    (d)(2), and (e)(3), (4), is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat.
    163, which is classified principally to chapter 12 (Sec. 1101 et
    seq.) of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1101 of Title 8 and Tables.
      The Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, referred to in
    subsec. (e)(1)(B), (3), is Pub. L. 110-229, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    754. Section 702(i) of the Act is set out as a note under this
    section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title of 2008 Amendment note set out under section 1 of Title
    16, Conservation, and Tables.


-MISC1-
                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 705, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 867,
    provided that:
      "(a) In General. - Except as specifically provided in this
    section or otherwise in this subtitle [subtitle A (Secs. 701-705)
    of title VII of Pub. L. 110-229, enacting this section and sections
    1807 and 1808 of this title, amending section 1804 of this title
    and sections 1101, 1158, 1182, 1184, and 1225 of Title 8,
    Immigration and Nationality, enacting provisions set out as notes
    under this section, section 1801 of this title, and section 1182 of
    Title 8, and amending provisions set out as notes under section
    1801 of this title], this subtitle and the amendments made by this
    subtitle shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act
    [May 8, 2008].
      "(b) Amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act. - The
    amendments to the Immigration and Nationality Act [8 U.S.C. 1101 et
    seq.] made by this subtitle [amending sections 1101, 1158, 1182,
    1184, and 1225 of Title 8], and other provisions of this subtitle
    applying the immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of
    Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17))) to the
    Commonwealth, shall take effect on the transition program effective
    date described in section 6 of Public Law 94-241 [48 U.S.C. 1806]
    (as added by section 702(a)), unless specifically provided
    otherwise in this subtitle.
      "(c) Construction. - Nothing in this subtitle or the amendments
    made by this subtitle shall be construed to make any residence or
    presence in the Commonwealth before the transition program
    effective date described in section 6 of Public Law 94-241 [48
    U.S.C. 1806] (as added by section 702(a)) residence or presence in
    the United States, except that, for the purpose only of determining
    whether an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence (as
    defined in section 101(a)(20) of the Immigration and Nationality
    Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(20))) has abandoned or lost such status by
    reason of absence from the United States, such alien's presence in
    the Commonwealth before, on, or after the date of enactment of this
    Act [May 8, 2008] shall be considered to be presence in the United
    States."

                           CONGRESSIONAL INTENT                       
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 701, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 853,
    provided that:
      "(a) Immigration and Growth. - In recognition of the need to
    ensure uniform adherence to long-standing fundamental immigration
    policies of the United States, it is the intention of the Congress
    in enacting this subtitle [subtitle A (Secs. 701-705) of title VII
    of Pub. L. 110-229, see Effective Date note set out above] - 
        "(1) to ensure that effective border control procedures are
      implemented and observed, and that national security and homeland
      security issues are properly addressed, by extending the
      immigration laws (as defined in section 101(a)(17) of the
      Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(17)), to apply
      to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (referred to
      in this subtitle as the 'Commonwealth'), with special provisions
      to allow for - 
          "(A) the orderly phasing-out of the nonresident contract
        worker program of the Commonwealth; and
          "(B) the orderly phasing-in of Federal responsibilities over
        immigration in the Commonwealth; and
        "(2) to minimize, to the greatest extent practicable, potential
      adverse economic and fiscal effects of phasing-out the
      Commonwealth's nonresident contract worker program and to
      maximize the Commonwealth's potential for future economic and
      business growth by - 
          "(A) encouraging diversification and growth of the economy of
        the Commonwealth in accordance with fundamental values
        underlying Federal immigration policy;
          "(B) recognizing local self-government, as provided for in
        the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern
        Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States of
        America through consultation with the Governor of the
        Commonwealth;
          "(C) assisting the Commonwealth in achieving a progressively
        higher standard of living for citizens of the Commonwealth
        through the provision of technical and other assistance;
          "(D) providing opportunities for individuals authorized to
        work in the United States, including citizens of the freely
        associated states; and
          "(E) providing a mechanism for the continued use of alien
        workers, to the extent those workers continue to be necessary
        to supplement the Commonwealth's resident workforce, and to
        protect those workers from the potential for abuse and
        exploitation.
      "(b) Avoiding Adverse Effects. - In recognition of the
    Commonwealth's unique economic circumstances, history, and
    geographical location, it is the intent of the Congress that the
    Commonwealth be given as much flexibility as possible in
    maintaining existing businesses and other revenue sources, and
    developing new economic opportunities, consistent with the mandates
    of this subtitle. This subtitle, and the amendments made by this
    subtitle, should be implemented wherever possible to expand tourism
    and economic development in the Commonwealth, including aiding
    prospective tourists in gaining access to the Commonwealth's
    memorials, beaches, parks, dive sites, and other points of
    interest."

                                  REPORTS                              
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(h)(1), (2), May 8, 2008, 122
    Stat. 864, provided that:
      "(1) In general. - Not later than March 1 of the first year that
    is at least 2 full years after the date of enactment of this
    subtitle [May 8, 2008], and annually thereafter, the President
    shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and
    the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on
    Natural Resources and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House
    of Representatives a report that evaluates the overall effect of
    the transition program established under section 6 [48 U.S.C. 1806]
    of the Joint Resolution entitled 'A Joint Resolution to approve the
    "Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America", and
    for other purposes', approved March 24, 1976 (Public Law 94-241),
    as added by subsection (a), and the Immigration and Nationality Act
    (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) on the Commonwealth.
      "(2) Contents. - In addition to other topics otherwise required
    to be included under this subtitle [subtitle A (Secs. 701-705) of
    title VII of Pub. L. 110-229, see Effective Date note set out
    above] or the amendments made by this subtitle, each report
    submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a description of the
    efforts that have been undertaken during the period covered by the
    report to diversify and strengthen the local economy of the
    Commonwealth, including efforts to promote the Commonwealth as a
    tourist destination. The report by the President shall include an
    estimate for the numbers of nonimmigrant workers described under
    section 101(a)(15)(H) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
    U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)) necessary to avoid adverse economic effects
    in Guam and the Commonwealth."
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(h)(4), May 8, 2008, 122
    Stat. 865, provided that:
      "(4) Reports by the local government. - The Governor of the
    Commonwealth may submit an annual report to the President on the
    implementation of this subtitle [subtitle A (Secs. 701-705) of
    title VII of Pub. L. 110-229, see Effective Date note set out
    above], and the amendments made by this subtitle, with
    recommendations for future changes. The President shall forward the
    Governor's report to the Congress with any Administration comment
    after an appropriate period of time for internal review, provided
    that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require the
    President to provide any legislative recommendation to the
    Congress."

        REQUIRED ACTIONS PRIOR TO TRANSITION PROGRAM EFFECTIVE DATE    
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(i), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    866, provided that:
      "During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act
    [May 8, 2008] and ending on the transition program effective date
    described in section 6 of Public Law 94-241 [48 U.S.C. 1806] (as
    added by subsection (a)), the Government of the Commonwealth shall -
     
        "(1) not permit an increase in the total number of alien
      workers who are present in the Commonwealth as of the date of
      enactment of this Act [May 8, 2008]; and
        "(2) administer its nonrefoulement protection program - 
          "(A) according to the terms and procedures set forth in the
        Memorandum of Agreement entered into between the Commonwealth
        of the Northern Mariana Islands and the United States
        Department of Interior, Office of Insular Affairs, executed on
        September 12, 2003 (which terms and procedures, including but
        not limited to funding by the Secretary of the Interior and
        performance by the Secretary of Homeland Security of the duties
        of 'Protection Consultant' to the Commonwealth, shall have
        effect on and after the date of enactment of this Act [May 8,
        2008]), as well as CNMI Public Law 13-61 and the Immigration
        Regulations Establishing a Procedural Mechanism for Persons
        Requesting Protection from Refoulement; and
          "(B) so as not to remove or otherwise effect the involuntary
        return of any alien whom the Protection Consultant has
        determined to be eligible for protection from persecution or
        torture."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1807                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1807. Technical assistance program

-STATUTE-
    (1) In general
      The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Governor
    of the Commonwealth, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of
    Commerce, and as provided in the Interagency Agreements required to
    be negotiated under section 1806(a)(4) of this title, as added by
    subsection (a),(!1) shall provide - 

        (A) technical assistance and other support to the Commonwealth
      to identify opportunities for, and encourage diversification and
      growth of, the economy of the Commonwealth;
        (B) technical assistance, including assistance in recruiting,
      training, and hiring of workers, to assist employers in the
      Commonwealth in securing employees first from among United States
      citizens and nationals resident in the Commonwealth and if an
      adequate number of such workers are not available, from among
      legal permanent residents, including lawfully admissible citizens
      of the freely associated states; and
        (C) technical assistance, including assistance to identify
      types of jobs needed, identify skills needed to fulfill such
      jobs, and assistance to Commonwealth educational entities to
      develop curricula for such job skills to include training
      teachers and students for such skills.
    (2) Consultation
      In providing such technical assistance under paragraph (1), the
    Secretaries shall - 
        (A) consult with the Government of the Commonwealth, local
      businesses, regional banks, educational institutions, and other
      experts in the economy of the Commonwealth; and
        (B) assist in the development and implementation of a process
      to identify opportunities for and encourage diversification and
      growth of the economy of the Commonwealth and to identify and
      encourage opportunities to meet the labor needs of the
      Commonwealth.
    (3) Cost-sharing
      For the provision of technical assistance or support under this
    paragraph (other than that required to pay the salaries and
    expenses of Federal personnel), the Secretary of the Interior shall
    require a non-Federal matching contribution of 10 percent.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(e), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    863.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 1806(a)(4) of this title, as added by subsection (a),
    referred to in par. (1), probably means section 1806(a)(5) of this
    title, as added by subsection (a) of section 702 of Pub. L. 110-
    229.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was enacted as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources
    Act of 2008, and not as part of Pub. L. 94-241 which comprises this
    subchapter.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1808                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER I - APPROVAL OF COVENANT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1808. Operations

-STATUTE-
    (1) Establishment
      At any time on and after May 8, 2008, the Attorney General,
    Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Labor may
    establish and maintain offices and other operations in the
    Commonwealth for the purpose of carrying out duties under - 
        (A) the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et
      seq.); and
        (B) the transition program established under section 1806 of
      this title, as added by subsection (a).
    (2) Personnel
      To the maximum extent practicable and consistent with the
    satisfactory performance of assigned duties under applicable law,
    the Attorney General, Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
    Secretary of Labor shall recruit and hire personnel from among
    qualified United States citizens and national applicants residing
    in the Commonwealth to serve as staff in carrying out operations
    described in paragraph (1).

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 110-229, title VII, Sec. 702(f), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    863.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in par. (1)(A),
    is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163, which is classified
    principally to chapter 12 (Sec. 1101 et seq.) of Title 8, Aliens
    and Nationality. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1101 of Title 8
    and Tables.
      Section 1806 of this title, as added by subsection (a), referred
    to in par. (1)(B), is section 1806 of this title, as added by
    subsection (a) of section 702 of Pub. L. 110-229.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was enacted as part of the Consolidated Natural Resources
    Act of 2008, and not as part of Pub. L. 94-241 which comprises this
    subchapter.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS                     02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
                     SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS                 

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1821                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1821. District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands

-STATUTE-
    (a) Establishment; judicial circuit; terms of court
      There is established for and within the Northern Mariana Islands
    a court of record to be known as the District Court for the
    Northern Mariana Islands. The Northern Mariana Islands shall
    constitute a part of the same judicial circuit of the United States
    as Guam. Terms of court shall be held on Saipan and at such other
    places and at such times as the court may designate by rule or
    order.
    (b) Appointment, tenure, removal, compensation, etc., of District
      Court judge; appointment of United States attorney and United
      States marshal
      (1) The President shall, by and with the advice and consent of
    the Senate, appoint a judge for the District Court for the Northern
    Mariana Islands who shall hold office for the term of ten years and
    until his successor is chosen and qualified, unless sooner removed
    by the President for cause. The judge shall receive a salary
    payable by the United States which shall be at the rate prescribed
    for judges of the United States district courts.
      (2) The Chief Judge of the Ninth Judicial Circuit of the United
    States may assign justices of the High Court of the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands or judges of courts of record of the
    Northern Mariana Islands who are licensed attorneys in good
    standing or a circuit or district judge of the ninth circuit,
    including a judge of the District Court of Guam who is appointed by
    the President or a recalled senior judge of the District Court of
    Guam or of the District Court of the Northern Mariana Islands, or
    the Chief Justice of the United States may assign any other United
    States circuit or district judge with the consent of the judge so
    assigned and of the chief judge of his circuit to serve temporarily
    as a judge in the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands
    whenever such an assignment is necessary for the proper dispatch of
    the business of the court. Such judges shall have all the powers of
    a judge of the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands,
    including the power to appoint any person to a statutory position,
    or to designate a depository of funds or a newspaper for
    publication of legal notices.
      (3) The President shall appoint, by and with the advice and
    consent of the Senate, a United States attorney and United States
    marshal for the Northern Mariana Islands to whose offices the
    provisions of chapters 35 and 37 of title 28, respectively, shall
    apply.
      (4) If the President appoints a judge for the District Court for
    the Northern Mariana Islands or a United States attorney or a
    United States marshal for the Northern Mariana Islands who at that
    time is serving in the same capacity in another district, the
    appointment shall, without prejudice to a subsequent appointment,
    be for the unexpired term of such judge or officer.
    (c) Applicability of Federal rules and statutory requirements
      Where appropriate, and except as otherwise provided in articles
    IV and V of the Covenant approved by the Act of March 24, 1976 (90
    Stat. 263), the provisions of part II of title 18 and of titles
    (!1) 28, the rules of practice and procedure heretofore or
    hereafter promulgated and made effective by the Congress or the
    Supreme Court of the United States pursuant to titles 11, 18, and
    28 shall apply to the District Court for the Northern Mariana
    Islands and appeals therefrom; except that the terms "Attorney for
    the government" and "United States attorney", as used in the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, shall, when applicable to
    cases arising under the laws of the Northern Mariana Islands,
    include the Attorney General of the Northern Mariana Islands or
    such other person or persons as may be authorized by the laws of
    the Northern Mariana Islands to act therein.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 1, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1265; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title IX, Sec. 901, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1744.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in subsec. (c), is the Covenant to
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union with the United States of America, which is
    contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under
    section 1801 of this title.
      Act of March 24, 1976, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 94-
    241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended, which is classified
    generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of this chapter. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, referred to in subsec.
    (c), are set out in the Appendix to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal
    Procedure.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694 of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 901(a), substituted
    "for a term of ten years" for "for a term of eight years".
      Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 901(b), inserted "or a
    recalled senior judge of the District Court of Guam or of the
    District Court of the Northern Mariana Islands" after "President"
    in first sentence.
      Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98-454, Sec. 901(c), amended subsec. (c)
    generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: "The
    provisions of chapters 43 and 49 of title 28, and the rules
    heretofore or hereafter promulgated and made effective by the
    Congress or the Supreme Court of the United States pursuant to
    titles 11, 18, and 28 shall apply to the District Court for the
    Northern Mariana Islands and appeals therefrom where appropriate,
    except as otherwise provided in articles IV and V of the covenant
    provided by the Act of March 24, 1976 (90 Stat. 263). The terms
    'attorney for the government' and 'United States attorney' as used
    in the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (rule 54(c)) shall, when
    applicable to cases arising under the laws of the Northern Mariana
    Islands, include the attorney general of the Northern Mariana
    Islands or any other person or persons as may be authorized by the
    laws of the Northern Marianas to act therein."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      For effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this
    title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC2-
                   EXTENSION OF TERM OF DISTRICT JUDGES               
      Extension of term of district court judges to ten years
    applicable to judges holding office on Oct. 5, 1984, see section
    1004 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note under section 1424b of
    this title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1822                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1822. Jurisdiction of District Court; original jurisdiction;
      procedural requirements

-STATUTE-
      (a) The District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands shall
    have the jurisdiction of a District Court of the United States,
    including, but not limited to, the diversity jurisdiction provided
    for in section 1332 of title 28 and that of a bankruptcy court of
    the United States.
      (b) The district court shall have original jurisdiction in all
    causes in the Northern Mariana Islands not described in subsection
    (a) of this section jurisdiction over which is not vested by the
    Constitution or laws of the Northern Mariana Islands in a court or
    courts of the Northern Mariana Islands. In causes brought in the
    district court solely on the basis of this subsection, the district
    court shall be considered a court of the Northern Mariana Islands
    for the purposes of determining the requirements of indictment by
    grand jury or trial by jury.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 2, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1266; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title IX, Sec. 902, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1744.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694a of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98-454 amended subsec. (a) generally,
    substituting ", including, but not limited to, the diversity
    jurisdiction provided for in section 1332 of title 28 and that of a
    bankruptcy court of the United States" for ", except that in all
    causes arising under the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
    United States, it shall have jurisdiction regardless of the sum or
    value of the matter in controversy".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      For effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this
    title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1823                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1823. Appellate jurisdiction of District Court; procedure;
      review by United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; rules

-STATUTE-
    (a) Appellate jurisdiction of District Court
      Prior to the establishment of an appellate court for the Northern
    Mariana Islands the district court shall have such appellate
    jurisdiction over the courts established by the Constitution or
    laws of the Northern Mariana Islands as the Constitution and laws
    of the Northern Mariana Islands provide, except that such
    Constitution and laws may not preclude the review of any judgment
    or order which involves the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the
    United States, including the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth
    of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United
    States of America (90 Stat. 263) (hereinafter referred to as
    "Covenant"), or any authority exercised thereunder by an officer or
    agency of the Government of the United States, or the conformity of
    any law enacted by the legislature of the Northern Mariana Islands
    or of any orders or regulations issued or actions taken by the
    executive branch of the government of the Northern Mariana Islands
    with the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United States,
    including the Covenant or with any authority exercised thereunder
    by an officer or agency of the United States.
    (b) Appellate division of District Court; quorum; presiding judge;
      designation of judges; decisions
      Appeals to the district court shall be heard and determined by an
    appellate division of the court consisting of three judges, of whom
    two shall constitute a quorum. The judge appointed for the court by
    the President shall be the presiding judge of the appellate
    division and shall preside therein unless disqualified or otherwise
    unable to act. The other judges who are to sit in the appellate
    division at any session shall be designated by the presiding judge
    from among the judges assigned to the court from time to time
    pursuant to section 1821(b)(2) of this title: Provided, That no
    more than one of them may be a judge of a court of record of the
    Northern Mariana Islands. The concurrence of two judges shall be
    necessary to any decision by the appellate division of the district
    court on the merits of an appeal but the presiding judge alone may
    make any appropriate orders with respect to an appeal prior to the
    hearing and determination thereof on the merits and may dismiss an
    appeal for want of jurisdiction or failure to take or prosecute it
    in accordance with the applicable law or rules of procedure.
    (c) United States Court of Appeals for Ninth Circuit; jurisdiction;
      appeals; rules
      The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall
    have jurisdiction of appeals from all final decisions of the
    appellate division of the district court. The United States Court
    of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit shall have jurisdiction to
    promulgate rules necessary to carry out the provisions of this
    subsection.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 3, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1266; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title IX, Sec. 903, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1744.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America,
    referred to in subsec. (a), is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-
    241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694b of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-454 designated existing provisions as subsec.
    (a), substituted provisions governing the appellate jurisdiction of
    the District Court prior to the establishment of the appellate
    court for former provisions which related to the appellate
    jurisdiction of the court and certain procedural matters which are
    covered under subsec. (b), and added subsecs. (b) and (c).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      For effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this
    title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1824                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1824. Relations between courts of United States and courts of
      Northern Mariana Islands; applicability of statutory provisions

-STATUTE-
      (a) The relations between the courts established by the
    Constitution or laws of the United States and the courts of the
    Northern Mariana Islands with respect to appeals, certiorari,
    removal of causes, the issuance of writs of habeas corpus, and
    other matters or proceedings shall be governed by the laws of the
    United States pertaining to the relations between the courts of the
    United States including the Supreme Court of the United States, and
    the courts of the several States in such matters and proceedings,
    except as otherwise provided in article IV of the covenant:
    Provided, That for the first fifteen years following the
    establishment of an appellate court of the Northern Mariana Islands
    the United States court of appeals for the judicial circuit which
    includes the Northern Mariana Islands shall have jurisdiction of
    appeals from all final decisions of the highest court of the
    Northern Mariana Islands from which a decision could be had in all
    cases involving the Constitution, treaties, or laws of the United
    States, or any authority exercised thereunder, unless those cases
    are reviewable in the District Court for the Northern Mariana
    Islands pursuant to section 1823 of this title.
      (b) Those portions of title 28 which apply to Guam or the
    District Court of Guam shall be applicable to the Northern Mariana
    Islands or the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands,
    respectively, except as otherwise provided in article IV of the
    covenant. The district court established by this subchapter shall
    be a district court as that term is used in section 3006A of title
    18.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 4, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1266; Pub. L. 98-
    454, title IX, Sec. 904, Oct. 5, 1984, 98 Stat. 1745.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694c of this title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1984 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98-454 inserted "including the
    Supreme Court of the United States," after "courts of the United
    States" in first sentence.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-454 effective on ninetieth day following
    Oct. 5, 1984, see section 1005 of Pub. L. 98-454, set out as a note
    under section 1424 of this title.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      For effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this
    title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1825                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1825. Effective date

-STATUTE-
      This subchapter shall come into force upon its approval or at the
    time proclaimed by the President for the Constitution of the
    Northern Mariana Islands to become effective, whichever is the
    later date.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 5, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1267.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694d of this title.


-MISC1-
                      EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONSTITUTION                  
      For provisions of proclamation of President relating to effective
    date for Constitution of Northern Mariana Islands, see Proc. No.
    4534, Oct. 24, 1977, 42 F.R. 56593, set out as a note under section
    1801 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1826                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER II - JUDICIAL MATTERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1826. Authorization of appropriations

-STATUTE-
      There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-157, Sec. 6, Nov. 8, 1977, 91 Stat. 1267.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly classified to section 1694e of this title.


-MISC1-
                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      For effective date of this section, see section 1825 of this
    title and Effective Date of Constitution note thereunder.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS                       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
                      SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS                  

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1841                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1841. Funds and services

-STATUTE-
    (a) Acquisition and construction of powerplant and distribution
      facilities
      There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for expenditure
    after October 1, 1978, not more than $12,000,000 plus or minus such
    amounts, if any, as may be justified by reason of ordinary
    fluctuations in construction costs from October 1978 price levels
    as indicated by engineering cost indexes applicable to the types of
    construction involved, to assist in the acquisition and
    construction of a powerplant for the Northern Mariana Islands
    together with upgrading, rehabilitation, or replacement of
    distribution facilities.
    (b) Services and facilities of Federal agencies; grants-in-aid;
      availability of appropriations in succeeding fiscal years
      (1) The government of the Northern Marianas in carrying out the
    purposes of this Act, Public Law 95-134, or Public Law 94-241 [48
    U.S.C. 1801 et seq.], may utilize, to the extent practicable, the
    available services and facilities of agencies and instrumentalities
    of the Federal Government on a reimbursable basis. Such amounts may
    be credited to the appropriation or fund which provided the
    services and facilities. Agencies and instrumentalities of the
    Federal Government may, when practicable, make available to the
    government of the Northern Marianas, upon request of the Secretary,
    such services and facilities as they are equipped to render or
    furnish, and they may do so without reimbursement if otherwise
    authorized by law.
      (2) Any funds made available to the Northern Mariana Islands
    under grant-in-aid programs by section 502 of the Covenant To
    Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
    Political Union With the United States of America (Public Law 94-
    241), or pursuant to any other Act of Congress enacted after March
    24, 1976, are hereby authorized to remain available until expended.
      (3) Any amount authorized by the Covenant described in paragraph
    (2) or by any other Act of Congress enacted after March 24, 1976,
    which authorizes appropriations for the Northern Mariana Islands,
    but not appropriated for a fiscal year is authorized to be
    available for appropriation in succeeding fiscal years.
    (c) Supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits and
      distribution of donated foods
      Notwithstanding the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of
    2008 [7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.], the Secretary of Agriculture is
    authorized, upon the request of the Governor of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, acting pursuant to legislation enacted in
    accordance with section 5 and 7 of article II of the Constitution
    of the Northern Mariana Islands, and for the period during which
    such legislation is effective, (1) to implement a supplemental
    nutrition assistance program in part or all of the Northern Mariana
    Islands with such income and household standards of eligibility,
    deductions, and allotment values as the Secretary determines, after
    consultation with the Governor, to be suited to the economic and
    social circumstances of such islands: Provided, That in no event
    shall such income standards of eligibility exceed those in the
    forty-eight contiguous States, and (2) to distribute or permit a
    distribution of federally donated foods in any part of the Northern
    Mariana Islands for which the Governor has not requested that the
    supplemental nutrition assistance program be implemented. This
    authority shall remain in effect through September 30, 1981, and
    shall not apply to section 1421q-1 or 1574-1 (!1) of this title.

    (d) Administration and enforcement of revenue and taxation
      provisions of Covenant
      (1) The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed,
    upon the request of the Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands,
    acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with sections
    5 and 7 of article II of the Constitution of the Northern Mariana
    Islands, or upon receipt of a resolution adopted by both houses of
    the legislature of the Northern Mariana Islands accompanied by a
    letter of request from either the Governor or the Lieutenant
    Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands, without reimbursement or
    other cost to the government of the Northern Mariana Islands, to
    administer and enforce the provisions of section 601, 603, or 604
    of the Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States of America
    (Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 263, 269) and in order to administer
    and enforce the collection of any payroll tax or other tax measured
    by income which may be in force in the Northern Mariana Islands
    pursuant to section 602 of such Covenant. This authority shall
    continue until such time as the Governor of the Northern Mariana
    Islands, acting pursuant to legislation enacted in accordance with
    sections 5 and 7 of article II of the Constitution of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, requests the Secretary of the Treasury to
    discontinue the administration and enforcement of such taxes. The
    administration and enforcement of such taxes by the government of
    the Northern Mariana Islands shall begin on January 1 of the year
    following the year in which such Northern Mariana Islands law is
    enacted.
      (2) For purposes of carrying out any administration and
    enforcement required by this subsection, the Secretary of the
    Treasury (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the
    "Secretary"), or his delegate, at no cost to the Northern Marianas
    government, may (A) employ citizens of the Northern Mariana Islands
    (as defined by Article III of the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States (approved, Public Law 94-241; 90 Stat. 265),
    or (B) use the services of employees of the government of the
    Northern Mariana Islands, upon agreement to pay such government for
    the use of such services. In addition, the Secretary, or his
    delegate, shall make every effort to assure that citizens of the
    Northern Mariana Islands (as so defined) are trained to ultimately
    assume the administration and enforcement duties required of the
    Secretary or his delegate under this section. Notwithstanding any
    other provision of law, the Secretary or his delegate is authorized
    to the maximum extent feasible in administering and enforcing the
    requested sections of the Covenant, to employ and train Northern
    Mariana Islands' citizens without regard to United States Civil
    Service hiring or job classification laws or any employment
    ceilings imposed upon the Secretary. The preceding sentence shall
    not exempt such Northern Mariana Islands' citizens so hired from
    any other laws affecting Federal or Internal Revenue Service
    employees and shall remain in effect until the end of the third
    full fiscal year following March 12, 1980.
      (3) As part of the administration of taxes required by this
    subsection, the Secretary or his delegate shall establish, at no
    cost to the Northern Marianas government, a taxpayers information
    service to provide such information and assistance to citizens of
    the Northern Mariana Islands (as so defined) as may be necessary
    for the filing of returns and the payment of such taxes.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 95-348, Sec. 3, Aug. 18, 1978, 92 Stat. 489; Pub. L. 96-
    205, title II, Sec. 204(a), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 86; Pub. L.
    110-234, title IV, Sec. 4002(b)(1)(A), (B), (2)(HH), May 22, 2008,
    122 Stat. 1095, 1096, 1098; Pub. L. 110-246, Sec. 4(a), title IV,
    Sec. 4002(b)(1)(A), (B), (2)(HH), June 18, 2008, 122 Stat. 1664,
    1857, 1859.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is Pub. L. 95-348, Aug.
    18, 1978, 92 Stat. 487. For complete classification of this Act to
    the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 95-134, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is Pub. L. 95-
    134, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1159, as amended, popularly known as
    the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977. For complete classification of
    this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 94-241, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1), (2) and
    (d)(1), (2), is Pub. L. 94-241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as
    amended, which is classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801
    et seq.) of this chapter. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Tables.
      The Covenant To Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States of America,
    referred to in subsecs. (b)(2), (3) and (d), is contained in
    section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801
    of this title.
      The Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, referred to in subsec. (c),
    is Pub. L. 88-525, Aug. 31, 1964, 78 Stat. 703, which is classified
    generally to chapter 51 (Sec. 2011 et seq.) of Title 7,
    Agriculture. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 2011 of Title 7 and
    Tables.
      Section 1421q-1 or 1574-1 of this title, referred to in subsec.
    (c), was in the original "section 403 of Public Law 95-135", and
    was translated as reading "section 403 of Public Law 95-134", to
    reflect the probable intent of Congress, because Public Law 95-135
    does not contain a section 403.
      The United States Civil Service hiring or job classification
    laws, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), are set out generally in Title
    5, Government Organization and Employees. For civil service laws,
    see particularly section 3301 et seq. of Title 5. For
    classification laws, see chapter 51 (Sec. 5101 et seq.) and
    subchapter III of chapter 53 (Sec. 5331 et seq.) of Title 5.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Pub. L. 110-234 and Pub. L. 110-246 made identical amendments to
    this section. The amendments by Pub. L. 110-234 were repealed by
    section 4(a) of Pub. L. 110-246.
      Subsecs. (b)(2), (3), (c), and (d) of this section were formerly
    set out as notes under section 1681 of this title.
      March 12, 1980, referred to in subsec. (d)(2), was in the
    original "the date of enactment", and was translated as meaning the
    date of enactment of Pub. L. 96-205, which enacted pars. (2) and
    (3) of subsec. (d) of this section, to reflect the probable intent
    of Congress.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 110-246, Sec. 4002(b)(1)(A), (B),
    (2)(HH), substituted "Food and Nutrition Act of 2008" for "Food
    Stamp Act of 1977" and substituted "supplemental nutrition
    assistance program" for "food stamp program" in two places.
      1980 - Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 96-205 designated existing provisions
    as par. (1), inserted "or upon receipt of a resolution adopted by
    both houses of the legislature of the Northern Mariana Islands
    accompanied by a letter of request from either the Governor or the
    Lieutenant Governor of the Northern Mariana Islands," after
    "Constitution of the Northern Mariana Islands," the first place
    appearing, and added pars. (2) and (3).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2008 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this section and repeal of Pub. L. 110-234 by Pub.
    L. 110-246 effective May 22, 2008, the date of enactment of Pub. L.
    110-234, except as otherwise provided, see section 4 of Pub. L. 110-
    246, set out as an Effective Date note under section 8701 of Title
    7, Agriculture.
      Amendment by section 4002(b)(1)(A), (B), (2)(HH) of Pub. L. 110-
    246 effective Oct. 1, 2008, see section 4407 of Pub. L. 110-246,
    set out as a note under section 1161 of Title 2, The Congress.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1842                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1842. Covering into Commonwealth treasury of tax proceeds
      collected pursuant to Covenant

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary shall take such steps as are necessary to ensure
    that the proceeds of taxes collected under the provisions of
    sections 601, 602, 603, and 604 of the Covenant (Public Law 94-241)
    are covered directly upon collection into the treasury of the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title II, Sec. 204(b), Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat.
    87.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.
      Public Law 94-241, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 94-241, Mar.
    24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended, which is classified generally
    to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of this chapter. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
    AUTHORITY OF GUAM, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
                           TO ENACT REVENUE LAWS
      See section 1271 of Pub. L. 99-514, set out as a note under
    section 931 of Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1843                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1843. Exemption from taxation for income derived from sources
      within Commonwealth

-STATUTE-
    (a) Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1978, but not after
      January 1, 1985
      Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, any person,
    including an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association,
    company, or corporation, which is a resident of or which is
    organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands and which is subject to the provisions of section
    601 of the Covenant to Establish the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States (Public
    Law 94-241), shall be exempted from the requirements of such
    section with respect to income derived from sources within the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands for taxable years
    beginning after December 31, 1978, until, but not after, January 1,
    1985. Nothing in this section shall be construed as relieving such
    person from the obligation to comply with the requirements of
    section 601 with respect to income derived from sources outside of
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (b) Taxable years beginning after December 31, 1980, and before
      January 1, 1982
      Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, any person,
    including an individual, trust, estate, partnership, association,
    company, or corporation, which is a resident of or which is
    organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands and which is subject to the provisions of section
    601 of the Covenant to Establish the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands (Public Law 94-241), shall be exempt from the
    requirements of such section with respect to income from sources
    within the Northern Mariana Islands for its taxable year beginning
    after December 31, 1980, and before January 1, 1982: Provided, That
    the Secretary receives written notice from the Governor of the
    Northern Mariana Islands not later than September 30, 1980, that
    sections 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of chapter 2 of Public Law 1-30 of the
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands or its successor, have
    been repealed in their entirety, effective December 31, 1981.
    (c) Tax rebates
      As provided in section 602 (!1) of Public Law 94-241 (90 Stat.
    263, 270) the term "rebate of any taxes" shall, effective January
    1, 1985, apply only to the extent taxes have actually been paid
    pursuant to section 601 (!1) of said Act, shall not exceed the
    amount of tax actually paid for any tax year, and may only be paid
    following the close of the tax year involved. Notwithstanding any
    other provision of law, effective January 1, 1985, the Commonwealth
    of the Northern Mariana Islands shall maintain, as a matter of
    public record, the name and address of each person receiving such a
    rebate, together with the amount of the rebate, and the year for
    which such rebate was made.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-205, title II, Sec. 205, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 87;
    Pub. L. 96-597, title III, Sec. 303(a), Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat.
    3478; Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 3(a), (b), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1459.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is the
    Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America, which
    is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note
    under section 1801 of this title.
      Public Law 94-241, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is Pub.
    L. 94-241, Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended, which is
    classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of this
    chapter. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Tables.
      Sections 601 and 602 of Public Law 94-241, referred to in subsec.
    (c), probably mean sections 601 and 602 of the Covenant, because
    Pub. L. 94-241 does not contain a section 601 or 602.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1983 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 3(a), substituted "1985"
    for "1983".
      Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 3(b), amended subsec. (c)
    generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (c) read as follows: "It is
    the sense of Congress that the term 'rebate' as used in section 602
    of Public Law 94-241 does not permit the abatement of taxes."
      1980 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 96-597 substituted "until, but not
    after, January 1, 1983." for "and before January 1, 1981.".

    SUSPENSION OF PROHIBITION OF ABATEMENT OF TAXATION IN COMMONWEALTH
                        OF NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 96-597, title III, Sec. 303(b), Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat.
    3478, provided that provisions of subsec. (c) of this section were
    suspended and were of no force or effect until Jan. 1, 1983.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1844                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1844. Political union between Territory of Guam and
      Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands

-STATUTE-
      In the event that a political union is effected at a future time
    between the Territory of Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, the Federal Government and each of its agencies is
    authorized and directed to assure that - 
        (i) there will be no diminution of any rights or entitlements
      otherwise eligible to said territory and Commonwealth in effect
      on the effective date of such union,
        (ii) there will be no adverse effect on any funds which have
      been or may hereafter be authorized or appropriated for said
      territory or Commonwealth, as of the effective date of such
      union, or
        (iii) no action is taken that would in any manner discourage
      such unification.

    Whenever any discrepancy exists or arises between the benefits
    available for either said territory or Commonwealth under any
    policies or programs authorized by law (including, but not limited
    to, any formulas for matching grants-in-aid or comparable programs
    or benefits), the most favorable terms available to either said
    territory or Commonwealth shall be deemed applicable to said
    unified area after the effective date of unification.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-597, title VI, Sec. 602, Dec. 24, 1981, 94 Stat. 3480.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1845                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1845. Plans for development, utilization, and conservation of
      water and related land resources

-STATUTE-
      (a) The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of
    Engineers and in cooperation with the Commonwealth of the Northern
    Mariana Islands, is hereby authorized and directed to study and
    draft plans for development, utilization, and conservation of water
    and related land resources of the Commonwealth. To carry out the
    purposes of this section there are authorized to be appropriated
    effective October 1, 1983, such sums as may be necessary.
      (b) Such studies shall include appropriate consideration of the
    needs for flood protection; wise use of flood plain lands;
    navigation facilities; hydroelectric power generation; regional
    water supply and waste water management facilities systems; general
    recreational facilities; enhancement and control of water quality;
    enhancement and conservation of fish and wildlife; and other
    measures for environment improvement and economic and human
    resources development. Such studies shall also be compatible with
    comprehensive development plans formulated by local planning
    agencies and other interested Federal agencies.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 13, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1462.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1846                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 17 - NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1846. Exemption from assessment and taxation of real property
      owned by Commonwealth in United States capital

-STATUTE-
      Real property owned by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in the capital of the United States and used by the
    Resident Representative thereof in the discharge of his
    representative duties under the Covenant shall be exempt from
    assessment and taxation.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title II, Sec. 208, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1875.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Covenant, referred to in text, is the Covenant to Establish a
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union
    with the United States of America, which is contained in section 1
    of Pub. L. 94-241, set out as a note under section 1801 of this
    title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND
           PALAU                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU

-HEAD-
           CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU       


-MISC1-
              SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS          

         PART A - APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ORIGINAL COMPACT     
    Sec.                                                     
    1901.       Approval of Compact of Free Association.              
    1902.       Agreements with Federated States of Micronesia.       
    1903.       Agreements with and other provisions related to
                 Marshall Islands.                                    
    1904.       Interpretation of and United States policy regarding
                 Compact of Free Association.                         
    1905.       Supplemental provisions.                              
    1906.       Construction contract assistance.                     
    1907.       Limitations.                                          
    1908.       Transitional immigration rules.                       
    1909.       Timing.                                               
    1910.       Implementation of audit agreements.                   
    1911.       Compensatory adjustments.                             
    1912.       Jurisdiction.                                         

       PART B - APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPACTS, AS AMENDED   
    1921.       Approval of U.S.-FSM Compact of Free Association and
                 the U.S.-RMI Compact of Free Association; references
                 to subsidiary agreements or separate agreements.     
    1921a.      Agreements with Federated States of Micronesia.       
    1921b.      Agreements with and other provisions related to the
                 Republic of the Marshall Islands.                    
    1921c.      Interpretation of and United States policy regarding
                 U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-RMI Compact.               
    1921d.      Supplemental provisions.                              
    1921e.      Construction contract assistance.                     
    1921f.      Prohibition.                                          
    1921g.      Compensatory adjustments.                             
    1921h.      Authorization and continuing appropriation.           

                           SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU                       

         PART A - APPROVAL OF COMPACT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS     
    1931.       Approval of Compact of Free Association.              
    1932.       Extension of Compact of Free Association to Palau.    
    1933.       Supplemental provisions.                              
    1934.       Jurisdiction.                                         

                    PART B - IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPACT                
    1951.       Entry into force of Compact.                          
    1952.       Fiscal procedures assistance.                         
    1953.       Antidrug program.                                     
    1954.       Public auditor and special prosecutor.                
    1955.       Audit certification.                                  
    1956.       Acquisition of defense sites.                         
    1957.       Federal programs coordination personnel.              
    1958.       Referendum costs.                                     
    1959.       Agreements.                                           
    1960.       Modification of energy assistance funding.            
    1961.       Submission of agreements.                             
    1962.       Transition funding.                                   

                 SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS             
    1971.       Transfer of surplus personal property owned by United
                 States.                                              
    1972.       Controlled substances in freely associated states.    
    1973.       Freely Associated State Air Carrier.                  

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS       02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS

-HEAD-
              SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS          

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original
                     Compact                               02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
         PART A - APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ORIGINAL COMPACT     

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1901                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1901. Approval of Compact of Free Association

-STATUTE-
    (a) Federated States of Micronesia
      The Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of this
    joint resolution between the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia is hereby approved, and Congress
    hereby consents to the subsidiary agreements as set forth on pages
    115 through 391 of House Document 98-192 of March 30, 1984, as they
    relate to such Government. Subject to the provisions of this joint
    resolution, the President is authorized to agree, in accordance
    with section 411 of the Compact, to an effective date for and
    thereafter to implement such Compact, having taken into account any
    procedures with respect to the United Nations for termination of
    the Trusteeship Agreement.
    (b) Marshall Islands
      The Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of this
    joint resolution between the United States and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands is hereby approved, and Congress hereby
    consents to the subsidiary agreements as set forth on pages 115
    through 391 of House Document 98-192 of March 30, 1984, as they
    relate to such Government. Subject to the provisions of this joint
    resolution, the President is authorized to agree, in accordance
    with section 411 of the Compact, to an effective date for and
    thereafter to implement such Compact, having taken into account any
    procedures with respect to the United Nations for termination of
    the Trusteeship Agreement.
    (c) Reference to Compact
      Any reference in this joint resolution to "the Compact" shall be
    treated as a reference to the Compact of Free Association set forth
    in title II of this joint resolution.
    (d) Amendment, change, or termination in Compact and certain
      agreements
      (1) Mutual agreement by the Government of the United States as
    provided in the Compact which results in amendment, change, or
    termination of all or any part thereof shall be effected only by
    Act of Congress and no unilateral action by the Government of the
    United States provided for in the Compact, and having such result,
    may be effected other than by Act of Congress.
      (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall apply - 
        (A) to all actions of the Government of the United States under
      the Compact including, but not limited to, actions taken pursuant
      to sections 431, 432, 441, or 442;
        (B) to any amendment, change, or termination in the Agreement
      between the Government of the United States and the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding Friendship,
      Cooperation and Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant to Sections
      321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association referred to in
      section 462(j) of the Compact and the Agreement between the
      Government of the United States and the Government of the
      Marshall Islands Concerning Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant to
      Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association referred
      to in section 462(k) of the Compact;
        (C) to any amendment, change, or termination of the agreements
      concluded pursuant to Compact sections 175, 177, and 221(a)(5),
      the terms of which are incorporated by reference into the
      Compact; and
        (D) to the following subsidiary agreements, or portions
      thereof:
          (i) Article II of the agreement referred to in section 462(a)
        of the Compact;
          (ii) Article II of the agreement referred to in section
        462(b) of the Compact;
          (iii) Article II and Section 7 of Article XI of the agreement
        referred to in section 462(e) of the Compact;
          (iv) the agreement referred to in section 462(f) of the
        Compact;
          (v) Articles III and IV of the agreement referred to in
        section 462(g) of the Compact;
          (vi) Articles III and IV of the agreement referred to in
        section 462(h) of the Compact; and
          (vii) Articles VI, XV, and XVII of the agreement referred to
        in section 462(i) of the Compact.
    (e) Subsidiary agreements deemed bilateral
      For purposes of implementation of the Compact and this joint
    resolution, each of the subsidiary agreements referred to in
    subsections (a) and (b) of this section (whether or not bilateral
    in form) shall be deemed to be bilateral agreements between the
    United States and each other party to such subsidiary agreement.
    The consent or concurrence of any other party shall not be required
    for the effectiveness of any actions taken by the United States in
    conjunction with either the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    Marshall Islands which are intended to affect the implementation,
    modification, suspension, or termination of any such subsidiary
    agreement (or any provision thereof) as regards the mutual
    responsibilities of the United States and the party in conjunction
    with whom the actions are taken.
    (f) Effective date
      (1) The President shall not agree to an effective date for the
    Compact, as authorized by this section, until after certifying to
    Congress that the agreements described in section 1902 of this
    title and section 1903 of this title have been concluded.
      (2) Any agreement concluded with the Federated States of
    Micronesia or the Marshall Islands pursuant to sections 1902 and
    1903 of this title and any agreement which would amend, change, or
    terminate any subsidiary agreement or portion thereof as set forth
    in paragraph (4) of this subsection shall be submitted to the
    Congress. No such agreement shall take effect until after the
    expiration of 30 days after the date such agreement is so submitted
    (excluding days on which either House of Congress is not in
    session).
      (3) No agreement described in paragraph (2) shall take effect if
    a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted during the period
    specified in paragraph (2). For the purpose of expediting the
    consideration of such a joint resolution, a motion to proceed to
    the consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been
    reported by an appropriate committee shall be treated as highly
    privileged in the House of Representatives. Any such joint
    resolution shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the
    provisions of section 601(b) of Public Law 94-329.
      (4) The subsidiary agreements or portions thereof referred to in
    paragraph (2) are as follows:
        (A) Articles III and IV of the agreement referred to in section
      462(b) of the Compact.
        (B) Articles III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, and XI (except
      for Section 7 thereof) of the agreement referred to in section
      462(e) of the Compact.
        (C) Articles IV, V, X, XIV, XVI, and XVIII of the agreement
      referred to in section 462(i) of the Compact.
        (D) Articles II, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the agreement referred
      to in section 462(g) of the Compact.
        (E) Articles II, V, VI, and VIII of the agreement referred to
      in section 462(h) of the Compact.
        (F) The Agreement set forth on pages 388 through 391 of House
      Document 98-192 of March 30, 1984.

      (5) No agreement between the United States and the Government of
    either the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands
    which would amend, change, or terminate any subsidiary agreement or
    portion thereof, other than those set forth in subsection (d) of
    this section or paragraph (4) of this subsection shall take effect
    until the President has transmitted such agreement to the President
    of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives
    together with an explanation of the agreement and the reasons
    therefore.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 101, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1773.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out below.
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b), (c), and
    (e), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended,
    known as the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, which is
    classified principally to this part and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et
    seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note below.
      For Oct. 21, 1986, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands, and Nov. 3, 1986, as the
    effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the
    Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b),
    and (f), see Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out
    as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      Section 601(b) of Public Law 94-329, referred to in subsec.
    (f)(3), is section 601(b) of Pub. L. 94-329, title VI, June 30,
    1976, 90 Stat. 765, which is not classified to the Code.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                       SHORT TITLE OF 2003 AMENDMENT                   
      Pub. L. 108-188, Sec. 1(a), Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2721,
    provided that: "This joint resolution [enacting part B of this
    subchapter and provisions set out as notes under section 1921 of
    this title and amending provisions set out as a note under section
    3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees], together
    with the table of contents in subsection (b) of this section [117
    Stat. 2721], may be cited as the 'Compact of Free Association
    Amendments Act of 2003'."

                                SHORT TITLE                            
      Section 1(a) of Pub. L. 99-239 provided that: "This joint
    resolution [enacting this part, chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of
    this title, and provisions set out below], together with the Table
    of Contents in subsection (b) of this section [99 Stat. 1770], may
    be cited as the 'Compact of Free Association Act of 1985'."

        APPLICATION OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS UNDER THE COMPACTS OF FREE
                                ASSOCIATION
      Pub. L. 106-504, Sec. 3(a), Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2312,
    provided that: "The freely associated states of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the
    Republic of Palau, respectively, and citizens thereof, shall remain
    eligible for all Federal programs, grant assistance, and services
    of the United States, to the extent that such programs, grant
    assistance, and services are provided to States and local
    governments of the United States and residents of such States, for
    which a freely associated State or its citizens were eligible on
    October 1, 1999. This eligibility shall continue through the period
    of negotiations referred to in section 231 of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, approved in Public Law 99-239 [set
    out below], and during consideration by the Congress of legislation
    submitted by an Executive branch agency as a result of such
    negotiations."

                 REGULATIONS REGARDING HABITUAL RESIDENCE             
      Pub. L. 104-208, div. C, title VI, Sec. 643, Sept. 30, 1996, 110
    Stat. 3009-708, provided that, not later than 6 months after Sept.
    30, 1996, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization was to
    issue regulations governing rights of "habitual residence" in the
    United States under the terms of the Compact of Free Association
    between the Government of the United States and the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United
    States and the Government of Palau.

       RATIFICATION OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND
    GOVERNMENTS OF REPUBLIC OF MARSHALL ISLANDS AND FEDERATED STATES OF
                                MICRONESIA
      Pub. L. 101-62, July 26, 1989, 103 Stat. 162, provided: "That,
    pursuant to section 101(d) of Public Law 99-239 [48 U.S.C.
    1901(d)], the following agreements are approved and shall enter
    into force in accordance with their terms:
        "(1) 'Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to Amend
      the Governmental Representation Provisions of the Compact of Free
      Association Pursuant to section 432 of the Compact', signed on
      March 18, 1988; and
        "(2) 'Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to Amend the
      Governmental Representation Provisions of the Compact of Free
      Association Pursuant to section 432 of the Compact', signed on
      March 9, 1988."

                              RECITAL CLAUSES                          
      Pub. L. 99-239 which enacted this part and chapter 19 of this
    title contained several "Whereas" clauses reading as follows:
      "Whereas the United States, in accordance with the Trusteeship
    Agreement, the Charter of the United Nations and the objectives of
    the international trusteeship system, has promoted the development
    of the peoples of the Trust Territory toward self-government or
    independence as appropriate to the particular circumstances of the
    Trust Territory and its peoples and the freely expressed wishes of
    the peoples concerned; and
      "Whereas the United States, in response to the desires of the
    peoples of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
    Islands expressed through their freely-elected representatives and
    by the official pronouncements and enactments of their lawfully
    constituted governments, and in consideration of its own
    obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement to promote self-
    determination, entered into political status negotiations with
    representatives of the peoples of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, and the Marshall Islands; and
      "Whereas these negotiations resulted in the 'Compact of Free
    Association' [set out below] which, together with its related
    agreements, was signed by the United States and by the Federated
    States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands on
    October 1, 1982 and June 25, 1983, respectively; and
      "Whereas the Compact of Free Association was approved by
    majorities of the peoples of the Federated States of Micronesia and
    the Marshall Islands in United Nations-observed plebiscites
    conducted on June 21, 1983 and September 7, 1983, respectively; and
      "Whereas the Compact of Free Association has been approved by the
    Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
    Islands in accordance with their respective constitutional
    processes, thus completing fully for the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands their domestic approval
    processes with respect to the Compact as contemplated in Compact
    Section 411".

                        COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION                    
      Pub. L. 99-239, title II, Sec. 201, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1800,
    as amended by Pub. L. 108-108, title I, Nov. 10, 2003, 117 Stat.
    1261, provided that: "The Compact of Free Association is as
    follows:

                       "COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION                   

                                 "PREAMBLE                             

    "THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENTS
      OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS AND THE FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
      "Affirming that their Governments and their relationships as
    Governments are founded upon respect for human rights and
    fundamental freedoms for all, and that the peoples of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands have the right to enjoy self-
    government; and
      "Affirming the common interests of the United States of America
    and the peoples of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in
    creating close and mutually beneficial relationships through two
    free and voluntary associations of their respective Governments;
    and
      "Affirming the interest of the Government of the United States in
    promoting the economic advancement and self-sufficiency of the
    peoples of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; and
      "Recognizing that their previous relationship has been based upon
    the International Trusteeship System of the United Nations Charter,
    and in particular Article 76 of the Charter; and that pursuant to
    Article 76 of the Charter, the peoples of the Trust Territory have
    progressively developed their institutions of self-government, and
    that in the exercise of their sovereign right to self-determination
    they have, through their freely-expressed wishes, adopted
    Constitutions appropriate to their particular circumstances; and
      "Recognizing their common desire to terminate the Trusteeship and
    establish two new government-to-government relationships each of
    which is in accordance with a new political status based on the
    freely-expressed wishes of peoples of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands and appropriate to their particular circumstances;
    and
      "Recognizing that the peoples of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands have and retain their sovereignty and their
    sovereign right to self-determination and the inherent right to
    adopt and amend their own Constitutions and forms of government and
    that the approval of the entry of their respective Governments into
    this Compact of Free Association by the peoples of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands constitutes an exercise of their
    sovereign right to self-determination;
      "NOW, THEREFORE, AGREE to enter into relationships of free
    association which provide a full measure of self-government for the
    peoples of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia; and
      "FURTHER AGREE that the relationships of free association derive
    from and are as set forth in this Compact; and that, during such
    relationships of free association, the respective rights and
    responsibilities of the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the freely associated states of the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia in regard to these
    relationships of free association derive from and are as set forth
    in this Compact.

                                "TITLE ONE                            

                          "GOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS                      

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "SELF-GOVERNMENT                         

      "Section 111
      "The peoples of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, acting through the Governments established under their
    respective Constitutions, are self-governing.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                             "FOREIGN AFFAIRS                         

      "Section 121
      "(a) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia have the capacity to conduct foreign affairs
    and shall do so in their own name and right, except as otherwise
    provided in this Compact.
      "(b) The foreign affairs capacity of the Governments of the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia includes:
        "(1) the conduct of foreign affairs relating to law of the sea
      and marine resources matters, including the harvesting,
      conservation, exploration or exploitation of living and non-
      living resources from the sea, seabed or subsoil to the full
      extent recognized under international law;
        "(2) the conduct of their commercial, diplomatic, consular,
      economic, trade, banking, postal, civil aviation, communications,
      and cultural relations, including negotiations for the receipt of
      developmental loans and grants and the conclusion of arrangements
      with other governments and international and intergovernmental
      organizations, including any matters specially benefiting their
      individual citizens.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes that the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia have the capacity to enter into, in their own name and
    right, treaties and other international agreements with governments
    and regional and international organizations.
      "(d) In the conduct of their foreign affairs, the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia confirm
    that they shall act in accordance with principles of international
    law and shall settle their international disputes by peaceful
    means.

      "Section 122
      "The Government of the United States shall support applications
    by the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia for membership or other participation in regional or
    international organizations as may be mutually agreed. The
    Government of the United States agrees to accept for training and
    instruction at the Foreign Service Institute [now George P. Shultz
    National Foreign Affairs Training Center], established under 22
    U.S.C. 4021, citizens of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia. The qualifications of candidates for such
    training and instruction and all other terms and conditions of
    participation by citizens of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia in Foreign Service Institute [now George P.
    Shultz National Foreign Affairs Training Center] programs shall be
    as mutually agreed between the Government of the United States and
    the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia.

      "Section 123
      "(a) In recognition of the authority and responsibility of the
    Government of the United States under Title Three, the Governments
    of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia
    shall consult, in the conduct of their foreign affairs, with the
    Government of the United States.
      "(b) In recognition of the respective foreign affairs capacities
    of the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia, the Government of the United States, in the conduct
    of its foreign affairs, shall consult with the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia on matters
    which the Government of the United States regards as relating to or
    affecting any such Government.

      "Section 124
      "The Government of the United States may assist or act on behalf
    of the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia in the area of foreign affairs as may be requested
    and mutually agreed from time to time. The Government of the United
    States shall not be responsible to third parties for the actions of
    the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia undertaken with the assistance or through the agency of
    the Government of the United States pursuant to this Section unless
    expressly agreed.

      "Section 125
      "The Government of the United States shall not be responsible for
    nor obligated by any actions taken by the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia in the area
    of foreign affairs, except as may from time to time be expressly
    agreed.

      "Section 126
      "At the request of the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia and subject to the consent of the
    receiving state, the Government of the United States shall extend
    consular assistance on the same basis as for citizens of the United
    States to citizens of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia for travel outside the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the United States and its
    territories and possessions.

      "Section 127
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact or its related
    agreements, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and benefits
    of the Government of the United States as Administering Authority
    which have resulted from the application pursuant to the
    Trusteeship Agreement of any treaty or other international
    agreement to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on the day
    preceding the effective date of this Compact are no longer assumed
    and enjoyed by the Government of the United States.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                              "COMMUNICATIONS                          

      "Section 131
      "(a) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia have full authority and responsibility to
    regulate their respective domestic and foreign communications, and
    the Government of the United States shall provide communications
    assistance in accordance with the terms of a separate agreement
    which shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact, and
    such agreement shall remain in effect until such time as any
    election is made pursuant to Section 131(b) and which shall provide
    for the following:
        "(1) the Government of the United States remains the sole
      administration entitled to make notification to the International
      Frequency Registration Board of the International
      Telecommunications Union of frequency assignments to radio
      communications stations respectively in the Marshall Islands and
      the Federated States of Micronesia; and to submit to the
      International Frequency Registration Board seasonal schedules for
      the broadcasting stations respectively in the Marshall Islands
      and the Federated States of Micronesia in the bands allocated
      exclusively to the broadcasting service between 5,950 and 26,100
      kHz and in any other additional frequency bands that may be
      allocated to use by high frequency broadcasting stations; and
        "(2) the United States Federal Communications Commission has
      jurisdiction, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, 47
      U.S.C. 151 et seq., and the Communications Satellite Act of 1962,
      47 U.S.C. 721 et seq., over all domestic and foreign
      communications services furnished by means of satellite earth
      terminal stations where such stations are owned or operated by
      United States common carriers and are located in the Marshall
      Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) The Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia may elect at any time to undertake the
    functions enumerated in Section 131(a) and previously performed by
    the Government of the United States. Upon such election, the
    Government of the United States shall so notify the International
    Frequency Registration Board and shall take such other actions as
    may be necessary to transfer to the electing Government the
    notification authority referred to in Section 131(a) and all rights
    deriving from the previous exercise of any such notification
    authority by the Government of the United States.

      "Section 132
      "The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia shall permit the Government of the United States to
    operate telecommunications services in the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia to the extent necessary to fulfill
    the obligations of the Government of the United States under this
    Compact in accordance with the terms of separate agreements which
    shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "IMMIGRATION                           

      "Section 141
      "(a) Any person in the following categories may enter into,
    lawfully engage in occupations, and establish residence as a
    nonimmigrant in the United States and its territories and
    possessions without regard to paragraphs (14), (20), and (26) of
    section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.
    1182(a) (14), (20), and (26):
        "(1) a person who, on the day preceding the effective date of
      this Compact, is a citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, as defined in Title 53 of the Trust Territory Code in
      force on January 1, 1979, and has become a citizen of the
      Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia;
        "(2) a person who acquires the citizenship of the Marshall
      Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia at birth, on or
      after the effective date of the respective Constitution;
        "(3) a naturalized citizen of the Marshall Islands or the
      Federated States of Micronesia who has been an actual resident
      there for not less than five years after attaining such
      naturalization and who holds a certificate of actual residence;
      or
        "(4) a person entitled to citizenship in the Marshall Islands
      by lineal descent whose name is included in a list to be
      furnished by the Government of the Marshall Islands to the United
      States Immigration and Naturalization Service and any descendants
      of such persons, provided that such person holds a certificate of
      lineal descent issued by the Government of the Marshall Islands.
    Such persons shall be considered to have the permission of the
    Attorney General of the United States to accept employment in the
    United States.
      "(b) The right of such persons to establish habitual residence in
    a territory or possession of the United States may, however, be
    subjected to nondiscriminatory limitations provided for:
        "(1) in statutes or regulations of the United States; or
        "(2) in those statutes or regulations of the territory or
      possession concerned which are authorized by the laws of the
      United States.
      "(c) Section 141(a) does not confer on a citizen of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia the right to
    establish the residence necessary for naturalization under the
    Immigration and Nationality Act, or to petition for benefits for
    alien relatives under that Act. Section 141(a), however, shall not
    prevent a citizen of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia from otherwise acquiring such rights or lawful
    permanent resident alien status in the United States.

      "Section 142
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States may enter into,
    lawfully engage in occupations, and reside in the Marshall Islands
    or the Federated States of Micronesia, subject to the rights of
    those Governments to deny entry to or deport any such citizen or
    national as an undesirable alien. A citizen or national of the
    United States may establish habitual residence or domicile in the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia only in
    accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which habitual
    residence or domicile is sought.
      "(b) With respect to the subject matter of this Section, the
    Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall accord to citizens and nationals of the United
    States treatment no less favorable than that accorded to citizens
    of other countries; any denial of entry to or deportation of a
    citizen or national of the United States as an undesirable alien
    must be pursuant to reasonable statutory grounds.

      "Section 143
      "(a) The privileges set forth in Sections 141 and 142 shall not
    apply to any person who takes an affirmative step to preserve or
    acquire a citizenship or nationality other than that of the
    Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia or the United
    States.
      "(b) Every person having the privileges set forth in Sections 141
    and 142 who possesses a citizenship or nationality other than that
    of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    United States ceases to have these privileges two years after the
    effective date of this Compact, or within six months after becoming
    21 years of age, whichever comes later, unless such person executes
    an oath of renunciation of that other citizenship or nationality.

      "Section 144
      "(a) A citizen or national of the United States who, after
    notification to the Government of the United States of an intention
    to employ such person by the Government of the Marshall Islands or
    the Federated States of Micronesia, commences employment with such
    Government shall not be deprived of his United States nationality
    pursuant to Section 349(a)(2) and (a)(4) of the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1481(a)(2) and (a)(4).
      "(b) Upon such notification by the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of
    the United States may consult with or provide information to the
    notifying Government concerning the prospective employee, subject
    to the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
      "(c) The requirement of prior notification shall not apply to
    those citizens or nationals of the United States who are employed
    by the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia on the effective date of this Compact with respect to
    the positions held by them at that time.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "REPRESENTATION                          

      "Section 151
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia may
    establish and maintain representative offices in the capital of the
    other for the purpose of maintaining close and regular
    consultations on matters arising in the course of the relationship
    of free association and conducting other government business. The
    Governments may establish and maintain additional offices on terms
    and in locations as may be mutually agreed.

      "Section 152
      "(a) The premises of such representative offices, and their
    archives wherever located, shall be inviolable. The property and
    assets of such representative offices shall be immune from search,
    requisition, attachment and any form of seizure unless such
    immunity is expressly waived. Official communications in transit
    shall be inviolable and accorded the freedom and protections
    accorded by recognized principles of international law to official
    communications of a diplomatic mission.
      "(b) Persons designated by the sending Government may serve in
    the capacity of its resident representatives with the consent of
    the receiving Government. Such designated persons shall be immune
    from civil and criminal process relating to words spoken or written
    and all acts performed by them in their official capacity and
    falling within their functions as such representatives, except
    insofar as such immunity may be expressly waived by the sending
    Government. While serving in a resident representative capacity,
    such designated persons shall not be liable to arrest or detention
    pending trial, except in the case of a grave crime and pursuant to
    a decision by a competent judicial authority, and such persons
    shall enjoy immunity from seizure of personal property, immigration
    restrictions, and laws relating to alien registration,
    fingerprinting, and the registration of foreign agents.
      "(c) The sending Governments and their respective assets, income
    and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes, except
    those direct taxes representing payment for specific goods and
    services, and shall be exempt from all customs duties and
    restrictions on the import or export of articles required for the
    official functions and personal use of their representatives and
    representative offices.
      "(d) Persons designated by the sending Government to serve in the
    capacity of its resident representatives shall enjoy the same
    taxation exemptions as are set forth in Article 34 of the Vienna
    Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
      "(e) The privileges, exemptions and immunities accorded under
    this Section are not for the personal benefit of the individuals
    concerned but are to safeguard the independent exercise of their
    official functions. Without prejudice to those privileges,
    exemptions and immunities, it is the duty of all such persons to
    respect the laws and regulations of the Government to which they
    are assigned.

      "Section 153
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States who, after
    consultation between the designating Government and the Government
    of the United States, is designated by the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia as its
    agent, shall enjoy exemption from the requirements of the laws of
    the United States relating to the registration of foreign agents.
    The Government of the United States shall promptly comply with a
    request for consultation made by the prospective designating
    Government. During the course of the consultation, the Government
    of the United States may, in its discretion, and subject to the
    provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. 552a, transmit such
    information concerning the prospective designee as may be available
    to it to the prospective designating Government.
      "(b) Any citizen or national of the United States may be employed
    by the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia to represent to foreign governments, officers or
    agents thereof the positions of the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, without regard to
    the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 953.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                         "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                     

      "Section 161
      "The Governments of the United States, the Marshall Islands and
    the Federated States of Micronesia declare that it is their policy
    to promote efforts to prevent or eliminate damage to the
    environment and biosphere and to enrich understanding of the
    natural resources of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia. In order to carry out this policy, the Government of
    the United States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and
    the Federated States of Micronesia agree to the following mutual
    and reciprocal undertakings.
      "(a) The Government of the United States:
        "(1) shall continue to apply the environmental controls in
      effect on the day preceding the effective date of this Compact to
      those of its continuing activities subject to Section 161(a)(2),
      unless and until those controls are modified under Sections
      161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4);
        "(2) shall apply the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
      83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., to its activities under the
      Compact and its related agreements as if the Marshall Islands and
      the Federated States of Micronesia were the United States;
        "(3) shall comply also, in the conduct of any activity
      requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement
      under Section 161(a)(2), with standards substantively similar to
      those required by the following laws of the United States, taking
      into account the particular environments of the Marshall Islands
      and the Federated States of Micronesia: the Endangered Species
      Act of 1973, 87 Stat. 884, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; the Clean Air
      Act, 77 Stat. 392, 42 U.S.C. Supp. 7401 et seq.; the Clean Water
      Act (Federal Water Pollution Control Act), 86 Stat. 896, 33
      U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; the Ocean Dumping Act (Title I of the Marine
      Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972), 86 Stat. 1053,
      33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, 90
      Stat. 2003, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the Resources Conservation
      and Recovery Act of 1976, 90 Stat. 2796, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.;
      and such other environmental protection laws of the United States
      as may be mutually agreed from time to time with the Government
      of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia;
      and
        "(4) shall develop, prior to conducting any activity requiring
      the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under
      Section 161(a)(2), appropriate mechanisms, including regulations
      or other judicially reviewable standards and procedures, to
      regulate its activities governed by Section 161(a)(3) in the
      Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia in a
      manner appropriate to the special governmental relationship set
      forth in this Compact. The agencies of the Government of the
      United States designated by law to administer the laws set forth
      in Section 161(a)(3) shall participate as appropriate in the
      development of any regulation, standard or procedure under this
      Section, and the Government of the United States shall provide
      the affected Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
      States of Micronesia with the opportunity to comment during such
      development.
      "(b) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall develop standards and procedures to
    protect their environments. As a reciprocal obligation to the
    undertakings of the Government of the United States under this
    Article, the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia, taking into account their particular
    environments, shall develop standards for environmental protection
    substantively similar to those required of the Government of the
    United States by Section 161(a)(3) prior to their conducting
    activities in the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, respectively, substantively equivalent to activities
    conducted there by the Government of the United States and, as a
    further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those standards.
      "(c) Section 161(a), including any standard or procedure
    applicable thereunder, and Section 161(b) may be modified or
    superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of
    the United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(d) In the event that an Environmental Impact Statement is no
    longer required under the laws of the United States for major
    federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human
    environment, the regulatory regime established under Sections
    161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) shall continue to apply to such activities
    of the Government of the United States until amended by mutual
    agreement.
      "(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the
    activities of the Government of the United States under this
    Compact and its related agreements from any environmental standard
    or procedure which may be applicable under Sections 161(a)(3) and
    161(a)(4) if the President determines it to be in the paramount
    interest of the Government of the United States to do so,
    consistent with Title Three of this Compact and the obligations of
    the Government of the United States under international law. Prior
    to any decision pursuant to this subsection, the views of the
    affected Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia shall be sought and considered to the extent
    practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the
    extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such
    exemption shall be given promptly to the affected Government.
      "(f) The laws of the United States referred to in Section
    161(a)(3) shall apply to the activities of the Government of the
    United States under this Compact and its related agreements only to
    the extent provided for in this Section.

      "Section 162
      "The Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia may bring an action for judicial review of any
    administrative agency action or any activity of the Government of
    the United States pursuant to Sections 161(a), 161(d) or 161(e) or
    for enforcement of the obligations of the Government of the United
    States arising thereunder. The United States District Court for the
    District of Hawaii and the United States District Court for the
    District of Columbia shall have jurisdiction over such action or
    activity, and over actions brought under Section 172(b) which
    relate to the activities of the Government of the United States and
    its officers and employees, governed by Section 161, provided that:
      "(a) Such actions may only be civil actions for any appropriate
    civil relief other than punitive damages against the Government of
    the United States or, where required by law, its officers in their
    official capacity; no criminal actions may arise under this
    Section.
      "(b) Actions brought pursuant to this Section may be initiated
    only by the Government concerned.
      "(c) Administrative agency actions arising under Section 161
    shall be reviewed pursuant to the standard of judicial review set
    forth in 5 U.S.C. 706.
      "(d) The District Court shall have jurisdiction to issue all
    necessary processes, and the Government of the United States agrees
    to submit itself to the jurisdiction of the court; decisions of the
    District Court shall be reviewable in the United States Court of
    Appeals for the Ninth Circuit or the United States Court of Appeals
    for the District of Columbia, respectively, or in the United States
    Supreme Court as provided by the laws of the United States.
      "(e) The judicial remedy provided for in this Section shall be
    the exclusive remedy for the judicial review or enforcement of the
    obligations of the Government of the United States under this
    Article and actions brought under Section 172(b) which relate to
    the activities of the Government of the United States and its
    officers and employees governed by Section 161.
      "(f) In actions pursuant to this Section, the Governments of the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall be
    treated as if they were United States citizens.

      "Section 163
      "(a) For the purpose of gathering data necessary to study the
    environmental effects of activities of the Government of the United
    States subject to the requirements of this Article, the Governments
    of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia
    shall be granted access to facilities operated by the Government of
    the United States in the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia, to the extent necessary for this purpose, except to
    the extent such access would unreasonably interfere with the
    exercise of the authority and responsibility of the Government of
    the United States under Title Three.
      "(b) The Government of the United States, in turn, shall be
    granted access to the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia for the purpose of gathering data necessary to discharge
    its obligations under this Article, except to the extent such
    access would unreasonably interfere with the exercise of the
    authority and responsibility of the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia under Title One, and
    to the extent necessary for this purpose shall be granted access to
    documents and other information to the same extent similar access
    is provided those Governments under the Freedom of Information Act,
    5 U.S.C. 552.
      "(c) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall not impede efforts by the Government of
    the United States to comply with applicable standards and
    procedures.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                         "GENERAL LEGAL PROVISIONS                     

      "Section 171
      "Except as provided in this Compact or its related agreements,
    the application of the laws of the United States to the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands by virtue of the Trusteeship
    Agreement ceases with respect to the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia as of the effective date of this
    Compact.

      "Section 172
      "(a) Every citizen of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia who is not a resident of the United States
    shall enjoy the rights and remedies under the laws of the United
    States enjoyed by any non-resident alien.
      "(b) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia and every citizen of the Marshall Islands or
    the Federated States of Micronesia shall be considered a 'person'
    within the meaning of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552,
    and of the judicial review provisions of the Administrative
    Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706, except that only the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia may seek
    judicial review under the Administrative Procedure Act or judicial
    enforcement under the Freedom of Information Act when such judicial
    review or enforcement relates to the activities of the Government
    of the United States governed by Sections 161 and 162.

      "Section 173
      "The Governments of the United States, the Marshall Islands and
    the Federated States of Micronesia agree to adopt and enforce such
    measures, consistent with this Compact and its related agreements,
    as may be necessary to protect the personnel, property,
    installations, services, programs and official archives and
    documents maintained by the Government of the United States in the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia pursuant to
    this Compact and its related agreements and by those Governments in
    the United States pursuant to this Compact and its related
    agreements.

      "Section 174
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact and its related
    agreements:
      "(a) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the
    courts of the United States, and the Government of the United
    States shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) The Government of the United States accepts responsibility
    for and shall pay:
        "(1) any unpaid money judgment rendered by the High Court of
      the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands against the Government
      of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government
      of the United States with regard to any cause of action arising
      as a result of acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United
      States prior to the effective date of this Compact;
        "(2) any claim settled by the claimant and the Government of
      the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands but not paid as of the
      effective date of this Compact; and
        "(3) settlement of any administrative claim or of any action
      before a court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
      pending as of the effective date of this Compact, against the
      Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the
      Government of the United States, arising as a result of acts or
      omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands or the Government of the United States.
      "(c) Any claim not referred to in Section 174(b) and arising from
    an act or omission of the Government of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States prior to the
    effective date of this Compact shall be adjudicated in the same
    manner as a claim adjudicated according to Section 174(d). In any
    claim against the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, the Government of the United States shall stand in the
    place of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands. A judgment on any claim referred to in Section 174(b) or
    this subsection, not otherwise satisfied by the Government of the
    United States, may be presented for certification to the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or its successor
    court, which shall have jurisdiction therefor, notwithstanding the
    provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1502, and which court's decisions shall be
    reviewable as provided by the laws of the United States. The United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall certify such
    judgment, and order payment thereof, unless it finds, after a
    hearing, that such judgment is manifestly erroneous as to law or
    fact, or manifestly excessive. In either of such cases the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall have
    jurisdiction to modify such judgment.
      "(d) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of
    the courts of the United States, and the Government of the United
    States shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia in any
    case in which the action is based on a commercial activity of the
    defendant Government where the action is brought, or in a case in
    which damages are sought for personal injury or death or damage to
    or loss of property occurring where the action is brought.

      "Section 175
      "A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, shall be concluded between the
    Government of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia regarding mutual
    assistance and cooperation in law enforcement matters including the
    pursuit, capture, imprisonment and extradition of fugitives from
    justice and the transfer of prisoners. The separate agreement shall
    have the force of law. In the United States, the laws of the United
    States governing international extradition, including 18 U.S.C.
    3184, 3186 and 3188-3195, shall be applicable to the extradition of
    fugitives under the separate agreement, and the laws of the United
    States governing the transfer of prisoners, including 18 U.S.C.
    4100-4115, shall be applicable to the transfer of prisoners under
    the separate agreement.

      "Section 176
      "The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia confirm that final judgments in civil cases rendered
    by any court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall
    continue in full force and effect, subject to the constitutional
    power of the courts of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia to grant relief from judgments in appropriate
    cases.

      "Section 177
      "(a) The Government of the United States accepts the
    responsibility for compensation owing to citizens of the Marshall
    Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia (or Palau) for loss
    or damage to property and person of the citizens of the Marshall
    Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia, resulting from the
    nuclear testing program which the Government of the United States
    conducted in the Northern Marshall Islands between June 30, 1946,
    and August 18, 1958.
      "(b) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands shall set forth in a separate agreement
    provisions for the just and adequate settlement of all such claims
    which have arisen in regard to the Marshall Islands and its
    citizens and which have not as yet been compensated or which in the
    future may arise, for the continued administration by the
    Government of the United States of direct radiation related medical
    surveillance and treatment programs and radiological monitoring
    activities and for such additional programs and activities as may
    be mutually agreed, and for the assumption by the Government of the
    Marshall Islands of responsibility for enforcement of limitations
    on the utilization of affected areas developed in cooperation with
    the Government of the United States and for the assistance by the
    Government of the United States in the exercise of such
    responsibility as may be mutually agreed. This separate agreement
    shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact and shall
    remain in effect in accordance with its own terms.
      "(c) The Government of the United States shall provide to the
    Government of the Marshall Islands, on a grant basis, the amount of
    $150 million to be paid and distributed in accordance with the
    separate agreement referred to in this Section, and shall provide
    the services and programs set forth in this separate agreement, the
    language of which is incorporated into this Compact.

      "Section 178
      "(a) The federal agencies of the Government of the United States
    which provide the services and related programs in the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia pursuant to Articles
    II and III of Title Two are authorized to settle and pay tort
    claims arising in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia from the activities of such agencies or from the acts or
    omissions of the employees of such agencies. Except as provided in
    Section 178(b), the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 31 U.S.C. 1304
    shall apply exclusively to such administrative settlements and
    payments.
      "(b) Claims under Section 178(a) which cannot be settled under
    Section 178(a) shall be disposed of exclusively in accordance with
    Article II of Title Four. Arbitration awards rendered pursuant to
    this subsection shall be paid out of funds under 31 U.S.C. 1304.
      "(c) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall,
    in the separate agreements referred to in Section 232, provide for:
        "(1) the administrative settlement of claims referred to in
      Section 178(a), including designation of local agents in the
      Marshall Islands and each State of the Federated States of
      Micronesia; such agents to be empowered to accept, investigate
      and settle such claims, in a timely manner, as provided in such
      separate agreements; and
        "(2) arbitration, referred to in Section 178(b), in a timely
      manner, at a site convenient to the claimant, in the event a
      claim is not otherwise settled pursuant to Section 178(a).
      "(d) The provisions of Section 174(d) shall not apply to claims
    covered by this Section.

                                "TITLE TWO                            

                            "ECONOMIC RELATIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "GRANT ASSISTANCE                         

      "Section 211
      "(a) In order to assist the Governments of the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia in their efforts to advance
    the economic self-sufficiency of their peoples and in recognition
    of the special relationship that exists between them and the United
    States, the Government of the United States shall provide on a
    grant basis the following amounts:
        "(1) to the Government of the Marshall Islands, $26.1 million
      annually for five years commencing on the effective date of this
      Compact, $22.1 million annually for five years commencing on the
      fifth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, and
      $19.1 million annually for five years commencing on the tenth
      anniversary of this Compact. Over this fifteen-year period, the
      Government of the Marshall Islands shall dedicate an average of
      no less than 40 percent of these amounts to the capital account
      subject to provision for revision of this percentage incorporated
      into the plan referred to in Section 211(b); and
        "(2) to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia,
      $60 million annually for five years commencing on the effective
      date of this Compact, $51 million annually for five years
      commencing on the fifth anniversary of the effective date of this
      Compact, and $40 million annually for five years commencing on
      the tenth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact. Over
      this fifteen year period, the Government of the Federated States
      of Micronesia shall dedicate an average of no less than 40
      percent of these amounts annually to the capital account subject
      to provision for revision of this percentage incorporated into
      the plan referred to in Section 211(b). To take into account the
      special nature of the assistance, to be provided under this
      paragraph and Sections 212(b), 213(c), 214(c), 215(a)(3),
      215(b)(3), 216(a), 216(b), 221(a), and 221(b), the division of
      these amounts among the national and state governments of the
      Federated States of Micronesia shall be certified to the
      Government of the United States by the Government of the
      Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) The annual expenditure of the grant amounts specified for
    the capital account in Section 211(a) by the Governments of the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall be in
    accordance with official overall economic development plans
    provided by those Governments and concurred in by the Government of
    the United States prior to the effective date of this Compact.
    These plans may be amended from time to time by the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(c) The Government of the United States and the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia
    recognize that the achievement of the goals of the plans referred
    to in Section 211(b) depends upon the availability of adequate
    internal revenue as well as economic assistance from sources
    outside of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, including the Government of the United States, and may,
    in addition, be affected by the impact of exceptional economically
    adverse circumstances. Each of the Governments of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall therefore
    report annually to the President of the United States and to the
    Congress of the United States on the implementation of the plans
    and on their use of the funds specified in this Article. These
    reports shall outline the achievements of the plans to date and the
    need, if any, for an additional authorization and appropriation of
    economic assistance for that year to account for any exceptional,
    economically adverse circumstances. It is understood that the
    Government of the United States cannot be committed by this Section
    to seek or support such additional economic assistance.

      "Section 212
      "In recognition of the special development needs of the Federated
    States of Micronesia, the Government of the United States shall
    provide to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia $1
    million annually for fourteen years commencing on the first
    anniversary of the effective date of this Compact. This amount may
    be used by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to
    defray current account expenditures attendant to the operation of
    the United States military Civic Action Teams made available in
    accordance with the separate agreement referred to in Section 227.

      "Section 213
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall provide on a grant
    basis $1.9 million annually to the Government of the Marshall
    Islands in conjunction with Section 321(a). The Government of the
    Marshall Islands, in its use of such funds, shall take into account
    the impact of the activities of the Government of the United States
    in the Kwajalein Atoll area of the Marshall Islands.
      "(b) The Government of the United States shall provide on a grant
    basis to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia the
    sum of $160,000 in conjunction with Section 321(a). This sum shall
    be made available concurrently with the grant assistance provided
    pursuant to this Article during the first year after the effective
    date of this Compact. The Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, in its use of such funds, shall take into account the
    impact of the activities of the Government of the United States in
    Yap State, Federated States of Micronesia.

      "Section 214
      "As a contribution to efforts aimed at achieving increased self-
    sufficiency in energy production, the Government of the United
    States shall provide on a current account grant basis for fourteen
    years commencing on the first anniversary of the effective date of
    this Compact the following amounts:
      "(a) To the Government of the Marshall Islands, $2 million
    annually.
      "(b) To the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, $3
    million annually.

      "Section 215
      "(a) As a contribution to the current account operations and
    maintenance of communications systems, the Government of the United
    States shall provide on a grant basis for fifteen years commencing
    on the effective date of this Compact the following amounts:
        "(1) to the Government of the Marshall Islands, $300,000
      annually; and
        "(2) to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia,
      $600,000 annually.
      "(b) For the purpose of acquiring such communications hardware as
    may be located within the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia or for such other current or capital account activity
    as may be selected, the Government of the United States shall
    provide, concurrently with the grant assistance provided pursuant
    to this Article during the first year after the effective date of
    this Compact, the sum of $9 million to be allocated as follows:
        "(1) to the Government of the Marshall Islands, $3 million; and
        "(2) to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia,
      $6 million.

      "Section 216
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall provide on a
    current account basis an annual grant of $5.369 million for fifteen
    years commencing on the effective date of this Compact for the
    purposes set forth below:
        "(1) $890,000 annually for the surveillance and enforcement by
      the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
      of Micronesia of their respective maritime zones;
        "(2) $1.791 million annually for health and medical programs,
      including referrals to hospital and treatment centers; and
        "(3) $2.687 million annually for a scholarship fund or funds to
      support the post-secondary education of citizens of the Marshall
      Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia attending United
      States accredited, post-secondary institutions in the United
      States, its territories and possessions, the Marshall Islands or
      the Federated States of Micronesia. The curricula criteria for
      the award of scholarships shall be designed to advance the
      purposes of the plans referred to in Section 211(b).
      "(b) The Government of the United States shall provide the sum of
    $1.333 million as a contribution to the commencement of activities
    pursuant to Section 216(a)(1).
      "(c) The annual grants referred to in Section 216(a) and the sum
    referred to in Section 216(b) shall be made available by the
    Government of the United States promptly after it receives
    instruction for their distribution agreed upon by the Governments
    of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia.

      "Section 217
      "Except as otherwise provided, the amounts stated in Sections
    211, 212, 214, 215 and 231 shall be adjusted for each Fiscal Year
    by the percent which equals two-thirds of the percentage change in
    the United States Gross National Product Implicit Price Deflator,
    or seven percent, whichever is less in any one year, using the
    beginning of Fiscal Year 1981 as the base.

      "Section 218
      "If in any year the funds made available by the Government of the
    United States for that year pursuant to this Article or Section 231
    are not completely obligated by the recipient Government, the
    unobligated balances shall remain available in addition to the
    funds to be provided in subsequent years.

      "Section 219
      "All funds previously appropriated to the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands which are unobligated by the Government of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as of the effective date of
    this Compact shall accrue to the Governments of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia for the purposes for
    which such funds were originally appropriated as determined by the
    Government of the United States.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                            "PROGRAM ASSISTANCE                        

      "Section 221
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, in
    accordance with and to the extent provided in the separate
    agreements referred to in section 232, without compensation and at
    the levels equivalent to those available to the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands during the year prior to the effective date of
    this Compact, the services and related programs:
        "(1) of the United States Weather Service;
        "(2) of the United States Federal Emergency Management Agency;
        "(3) provided pursuant to the Postal Reorganization Act, 39
      U.S.C. 101 et seq.;
        "(4) of the United States Federal Aviation Administration; and
        "(5) of the United States Civil Aeronautics Board or its
      successor agencies which has the authority to implement the
      provisions of paragraph 5 of Article IX of such separate
      agreements, the language of which is incorporated into this
      Compact.
      "(b) The Government of the United States, recognizing the special
    needs of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia particularly in the fields of education and health care,
    shall make available, as provided by the laws of the United States,
    the annual amount of $10 million which shall be allocated in
    accordance with the provisions of the separate agreement referred
    to in Section 232.
      "(c) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia such
    alternate energy development projects, studies and conservation
    measures as are applicable to the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands on the day preceding the effective date of this Compact,
    for the purposes and duration provided in the laws of the United
    States.
      "(d) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise
    such authority as is necessary for the purposes of this Article and
    as is set forth in the separate agreements referred to in Section
    232, which shall also set forth the extent to which services and
    programs shall be provided to the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia.

      "Section 222
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    consult regularly or upon request regarding:
        "(a) The economic development of the Marshall Islands or the
      Federated States of Micronesia; or
        "(b) The services and programs referred to in this Article.
      These services and programs shall continue to be provided by the
      Government of the United States unless their modification is
      provided by mutual agreement or their termination in whole or in
      part is requested by any recipient Government.

      "Section 223
      "The citizens of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia who are receiving post-secondary educational assistance
    from the Government of the United States on the day preceding the
    effective date of this Compact shall continue to be eligible, if
    otherwise qualified, to receive such assistance to complete their
    academic programs for a maximum of four years after the effective
    date of this Compact.

      "Section 224
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia may agree
    from time to time to the extension of additional United States
    grant assistance, services and programs as provided by the Laws of
    the United States, to the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia, respectively.

      "Section 225
      "The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia shall make available to the Government of the United
    States at no cost such land as may be necessary for the operations
    of the services and programs provided pursuant to this Article, and
    such facilities as are provided by the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia at no cost to the
    Government of the United States as of the effective date of this
    Compact or as may be mutually agreed thereafter.

      "Section 226
      "The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia may request, from time to time, technical assistance
    from the federal agencies and institutions of the Government of the
    United States, which are authorized to grant such technical
    assistance in accordance with its laws and which shall grant such
    technical assistance in a manner which gives priority consideration
    to the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia over
    other recipients not a part of the United States, its territories
    or possessions. The Government of the United States shall
    coordinate the provision of such technical assistance in
    consultation with the respective recipient Government.

      "Section 227
      "In recognition of the special development needs of the Federated
    States of Micronesia, the Government of the United States shall
    make available United States military Civic Action Teams for use in
    the Federated States of Micronesia under terms and conditions
    specified in a separate agreement which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                        "ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS                    

      "Section 231
      "Upon the thirteenth anniversary of the effective date of this
    Compact, the Government of the United States and the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    commence negotiations regarding those provisions of this Compact
    which expire on the fifteenth anniversary of its effective date.
    The period for the enactment of legislation approving the
    agreements resulting from such negotiations shall extend through
    the earlier of the date of the enactment of such legislation or
    September 30, 2004, during which time the provisions of this
    Compact, including Title Three, shall remain in full force and
    effect. [As amended Pub. L. 108-108, title I, Nov. 10, 2003, 117
    Stat. 1261.]

      "Section 232
      "The specific nature, extent and contractual arrangements of the
    services and programs provided for in Section 221 as well as the
    legal status of agencies of the Government of the United States,
    their civilian employees and contractors, and the dependents of
    such personnel while present in the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia, and other arrangements in
    connection with a service or program furnished by the Government of
    the United States, are set forth in separate agreements which shall
    come into effect simultaneously with this Compact.

      "Section 233
      "The Government of the United States, in consultation with the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, shall determine and implement procedures for the
    periodic audit of all grants and other assistance made under
    Article I of this Title and of all funds expended for the services
    and programs provided under Article II of this Title. Such audits
    shall be conducted on an annual basis during the first five years
    following the effective date of this Compact and shall be at no
    cost to the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia.

      "Section 234
      "Title to the property of the Government of the United States
    situated in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or acquired
    for or used by the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands on or before the day preceding the effective date of this
    Compact shall, without reimbursement or transfer of funds, vest in
    the Government of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia as set forth in a separate agreement which shall come
    into effect simultaneously with this Compact. The provisions of
    this Section shall not apply to the property of the Government of
    the United States for which the Government of the United States
    determines a continuing requirement.

      "Section 235
      "(a) Funds held in trust by the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, in his official capacity, as of
    the effective date of this Compact shall remain available as trust
    funds to their designated beneficiaries. The Government of the
    United States, in consultation with the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, shall appoint a new
    trustee who shall exercise the functions formerly exercised by the
    High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
      "(b) To provide for the continuity of administration, and to
    assure the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia that the purposes of the laws of the United
    States are carried out and that the funds of any other trust fund
    in which the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands has authority of a statutory or customary nature
    shall remain available as trust funds to their designated
    beneficiaries, the Government of the United States agrees to assume
    the authority formerly vested in the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands.

      "Section 236
      "Except as otherwise provided, approval of this Compact by the
    Government of the United States shall constitute a pledge of the
    full faith and credit of the United States for the full payment of
    the sums and amounts specified in Articles I and III of this Title.
    The obligation of the United States under Articles I and III of
    this Title shall be enforceable in the United States Claims Court
    [now United States Court of Federal Claims], or its successor
    court, which shall have jurisdiction in cases arising under this
    Section, notwithstanding the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1502, and
    which court's decisions shall be reviewable as provided by the laws
    of the United States.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                                  "TRADE                              

      "Section 241
      "The Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia are
    not included in the customs territory of the United States.

      "Section 242
      "For the purpose of assessing duties on their products imported
    into the customs territory of the United States, the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall be treated as
    if they were insular possessions of the United States within the
    meaning of General Headnote 3(a) of the Tariff Schedules of the
    United States. The exceptions, valuation procedures and all other
    provisions of General Headnote 3(a) shall apply to any product
    deriving from the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia.

      "Section 243
      "All products of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia imported into the customs territory of the United States
    which are not accorded the treatment set forth in Section 242 and
    all products of the United States imported into the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall receive
    treatment no less favorable than that accorded like products of any
    foreign country with respect to customs duties or charges of a
    similar nature and with respect to laws and regulations relating to
    importation, exportation, taxation, sale, distribution, storage or
    use.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                           "FINANCE AND TAXATION                       

      "Section 251
      "The currency of the United States is the official circulating
    legal tender of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia. Should the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia act to institute another currency,
    the terms of an appropriate currency transitional period shall be
    as agreed with the Government of the United States.

      "Section 252
      "The Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States
    of Micronesia may, with respect to United States persons, tax
    income derived from sources within its respective jurisdiction,
    property situated therein, including transfers of such property by
    gift or at death, and products consumed therein, in such manner as
    such Government deems appropriate. The determination of the source
    of any income, or the situs of any property, shall for purposes of
    this Compact be made according to the United States Internal
    Revenue Code.

      "Section 253
      "A citizen of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia, domiciled therein, shall be exempt from:
      "(a) Income taxes imposed by the Government of the United States
    upon fixed or determinable annual income.
      "(b) Estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes imposed
    by the Government of the United States.

      "Section 254
      "(a) In determining any income tax imposed by the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, those
    Governments shall have authority to impose tax upon income derived
    by a resident of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia from sources without the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, in the same manner and to the same
    extent as those Governments impose tax upon income derived from
    within their respective jurisdictions. If the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia exercises
    such authority as provided in this subsection, any individual
    resident of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia who is subject to tax by the Government of the United
    States on income which is also taxed by the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall be
    relieved of liability to the Government of the United States for
    the tax which, but for this subsection, would otherwise be imposed
    by the Government of the United States on such income. For purposes
    of this Section, the term 'resident of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia' shall be deemed to include any
    person who was physically present in the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia for a period of 183 or more days
    during any taxable year; provided, that as between the Government
    of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    authority to tax an individual resident of the Marshall Islands or
    the Federated States of Micronesia in respect of income from
    sources without the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia as provided in this subsection may be exercised only by
    the Government in whose jurisdiction such individual was physically
    present for the greatest number of days during the taxable year.
      "(b) If the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia subjects income to taxation substantially
    similar to that imposed by the Trust Territory Code in effect on
    January 1, 1980, such Government shall be deemed to have exercised
    the authority described in Section 254(a).

      "Section 255
      "Where not otherwise manifestly inconsistent with the intent of
    this Compact, provisions in the United States Internal Revenue Code
    that are applicable to possessions of the United States as of
    January 1, 1980 shall be treated as applying to the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia. If such provisions
    of the Internal Revenue Code are amended, modified or repealed
    after that date, such provisions shall continue in effect as to the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia for a
    period of two years during which time the Government of the United
    States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall negotiate an agreement which
    shall provide benefits substantially equivalent to those which
    obtained under such provisions.

                               "TITLE THREE                           

                      "SECURITY AND DEFENSE RELATIONS                  

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY                   

      "Section 311
      "(a) The Government of the United States has full authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) This authority and responsibility includes:
        "(1) the obligation to defend the Marshall Islands and the
      Federated States of Micronesia and their peoples from attack or
      threats thereof as the United States and its citizens are
      defended;
        "(2) the option to foreclose access to or use of the Marshall
      Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia by military
      personnel or for the military purposes of any third country; and
        "(3) the option to establish and use military areas and
      facilities in the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
      Micronesia, subject to the terms of the separate agreements
      referred to in Sections 321 and 323.
      "(c) The Government of the United States confirms that it shall
    act in accordance with the principles of international law and the
    Charter of the United Nations in the exercise of this authority and
    responsibility.

      "Section 312
      "Subject to the terms of any agreements negotiated in accordance
    with Sections 321 and 323, the Government of the United States may
    conduct within the lands, waters and airspace of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia the activities and
    operations necessary for the exercise of its authority and
    responsibility under this Title.

      "Section 313
      "(a) The Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall refrain from actions which the
    Government of the United States determines, after appropriate
    consultation with those Governments, to be incompatible with its
    authority and responsibility for security and defense matters in or
    relating to the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia.
      "(b) The consultations referred to in this Section shall be
    conducted expeditiously at senior levels of the Governments
    concerned, and the subsequent determination by the Government of
    the United States referred to in this Section shall be made only at
    senior interagency levels of the Government of the United States.
      "(c) The Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall be afforded, on an expeditious basis, an
    opportunity to raise its concerns with the United States Secretary
    of State personally and the United States Secretary of Defense
    personally regarding any determination made in accordance with this
    Section.

      "Section 314
      "(a) Unless otherwise agreed, the Government of the United States
    shall not, in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia:
      "(1) test by detonation or dispose of any nuclear weapon, nor
    test, dispose of, or discharge any toxic chemical or biological
    weapon; or
      "(2) test, dispose of, or discharge any other radioactive, toxic
    chemical or biological materials in an amount or manner which would
    be hazardous to public health or safety.
      "(b) Unless otherwise agreed, other than for transit or over
    flight purposes or during time of a national emergency declared by
    the President of the United States, a state of war declared by the
    Congress of the United States or as necessary to defend against an
    actual or impending armed attack on the United States, the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of
    the United States shall not store in the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia any toxic chemical weapon, nor any
    radioactive materials nor any toxic chemical materials intended for
    weapons use.
      "(c) Radioactive, toxic chemical, or biological materials not
    intended for weapons use shall not be affected by Section 314(b).
      "(d) No material or substance referred to in this Section shall
    be stored in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia except in an amount and manner which would not be
    hazardous to public health or safety. In determining what shall be
    an amount or manner which would be hazardous to public health or
    safety under this Section, the Government of the United States
    shall comply with any applicable mutual agreement, international
    guidelines accepted by the Government of the United States, and the
    laws of the United States and their implementing regulations.
      "(e) Any exercise of the exemption authority set forth in Section
    161(e) shall have no effect on the obligations of the Government of
    the United States under this Section or on the application of this
    subsection.
      "(f) The provisions of this Section shall apply in the areas in
    which the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia exercises jurisdiction over the living
    resources of the seabed, subsoil or water column adjacent to its
    coasts.

      "Section 315
      "The Government of the United States may invite members of the
    armed forces of other countries to use military areas and
    facilities in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia, in conjunction with and under the control of United
    States Armed Forces. Use by units of the armed forces of other
    countries of such military areas and facilities, other than for
    transit and overflight purposes, shall be subject to consultation
    with and, in the case of major units, approval by the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia.

      "Section 316
      "The authority and responsibility of the Government of the United
    States under this Title may not be transferred or otherwise
    assigned.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                 "DEFENSE FACILITIES AND OPERATING RIGHTS             

      "Section 321
      "(a) Specific arrangements for the establishment and use by the
    Government of the United States of military areas and facilities in
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia are set
    forth in separate agreements which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact.
      "(b) If, in the exercise of its authority and responsibility
    under this Title, the Government of the United States requires the
    use of areas within the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia in addition to those for which specific arrangements are
    concluded pursuant to Section 321(a), it may request the Government
    concerned to satisfy those requirements through leases or other
    arrangements. The Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall sympathetically consider any
    such request and shall establish suitable procedures to discuss it
    with and provide a prompt response to the Government of the United
    States.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes and respects
    the scarcity and special importance of land in the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia. In making any requests
    pursuant to Section 321(b), the Government of the United States
    shall follow the policy of requesting the minimum area necessary to
    accomplish the required security and defense purpose, of requesting
    only the minimum interest in real property necessary to support
    such purpose, and of requesting first to satisfy its requirement
    through public real property, where available, rather than through
    private real property.

      "Section 322
      "The Government of the United States shall provide and maintain
    fixed and floating aids to navigation in the Marshall Islands and
    the Federated States of Micronesia at least to the extent necessary
    for the exercise of its authority and responsibility under this
    Title.

      "Section 323
      "The military operating rights of the Government of the United
    States and the legal status and contractual arrangements of the
    United States Armed Forces, their members, and associated
    civilians, while present in the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia, are set forth in separate agreements which
    shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

          "DEFENSE TREATIES AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AGREEMENTS      

      "Section 331
      "Subject to the terms of this Compact and its related agreements,
    the Government of the United States, exclusively, shall assume and
    enjoy, as to the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and benefits
    of:
      "(a) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    applied by the Government of the United States as Administering
    Authority of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as of the
    day preceding the effective date of this Compact.
      "(b) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    to which the Government of the United States is or may become a
    party which it determines to be applicable in the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia. Such a determination by the
    Government of the United States shall be preceded by appropriate
    consultation with the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

               "SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES           

      "Section 341
      "Any person entitled to the privileges set forth in Section 141
    shall be eligible to volunteer for service in the Armed Forces of
    the United States, but shall not be subject to involuntary
    induction into military service of the United States so long as
    such person does not establish habitual residence in the United
    States, its territories or possessions.

      "Section 342
      "The Government of the United States shall have enrolled, at any
    one time, at least two qualified students, one each from the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, as may be
    nominated by their respective Governments, in each of:
      "(a) The United States Coast Guard Academy pursuant to 14 U.S.C.
    195.
      "(b) The United States Merchant Marine Academy pursuant to
    [former] 46 U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6) [see 46 U.S.C. 51304],
    provided that the provisions of 46 U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6)(C)
    [now 46 U.S.C. 51304(b)(2)] shall not apply to the enrollment of
    students pursuant to Section 342(b) of this Compact.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

      "Section 351
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    establish two Joint Committees empowered to consider disputes under
    the implementation of this Title and its related agreements.
      "(b) The membership of each Joint Committee shall comprise
    selected senior officials of each of the two participating
    Governments. The senior United States military commander in the
    Pacific area shall be the senior United States member of each Joint
    Committee. For the meetings of each Joint Committee, each of the
    two participating Governments may designate additional or alternate
    representatives as appropriate for the subject matter under
    consideration.
      "(c) Unless otherwise mutually agreed, each Joint Committee shall
    meet semi-annually at a time and place to be designated, after
    appropriate consultation, by the Government of the United States. A
    Joint Committee also shall meet promptly upon request of either of
    its members. Upon notification by the Government of the United
    States, the Joint Committees so notified shall meet promptly in a
    combined session to consider matters within the jurisdiction of
    more than one Joint Committee. Each Joint Committee shall follow
    such procedures, including the establishment of functional
    subcommittees, as the members may from time to time agree.
      "(d) Unresolved issues in each Joint Committee shall be referred
    to the Governments concerned for resolution, and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia shall be
    afforded, on an expeditious basis, an opportunity to raise its
    concerns with the United States Secretary of Defense personally
    regarding any unresolved issue which threatens its continued
    association with the Government of the United States.

      "Section 352
      "In the exercise of its authority and responsibility under Title
    Three, the Government of the United States shall accord due respect
    to the authority and responsibility of the Governments of the
    Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia under
    Titles One, Two and Four and to their responsibility to assure the
    well-being of their peoples.

      "Section 353
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall not include any of
    the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia as named parties to a formal declaration of war, without
    their respective consent.
      "(b) Absent such consent, this Compact is without prejudice, on
    the ground of belligerence or the existence of a state of war, to
    any claims for damages which are advanced by the citizens,
    nationals or Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia, which arise out of armed conflict subsequent
    to the effective date of this Compact and which are:
        "(1) petitions to the Government of the United States for
      redress; or
        "(2) claims in any manner against the government, citizens,
      nationals or entities of any third country.
      "(c) Petitions under Section 353(b)(1) shall be treated as if
    they were made by citizens of the United States.

      "Section 354
      "(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Compact, the
    provisions of this Title are binding from the effective date of
    this Compact for a period of fifteen years between the Government
    of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia and thereafter as mutually
    agreed or in accordance with Section 231, unless earlier terminated
    by mutual agreement pursuant to Section 441, or amended pursuant to
    Article III of Title Four.
      "(b) The Government of the United States recognizes, in view of
    the special relationship between the Government of the United
    States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, and in view of the existence of
    separate agreements with each of them pursuant to Sections 321 and
    323, that, even if this Title should terminate, any attack on the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia during the
    period in which such separate agreements are in effect, would
    constitute a threat to the peace and security of the entire region
    and a danger to the United States. In the event of such an attack,
    the Government of the United States would take action to meet the
    danger to the United States and to the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia in accordance with its
    constitutional processes.

                                "TITLE FOUR                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE                   

      "Section 411
      "This Compact shall come into effect upon mutual agreement
    between the Government of the United States, acting in fulfillment
    of its responsibilities as Administering Authority of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia and
    subsequent to completion of the following:
      "(a) Approval by the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia in accordance with its
    constitutional processes.
      "(b) Conduct of the plebiscite referred to in Section 412.
      "(c) Approval by the Government of the United States in
    accordance with its constitutional processes.

      "Section 412
      "A plebiscite shall be conducted in each of the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia for the free and voluntary
    choice by the peoples of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
    of their future political status through informed and democratic
    processes. The Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall each be considered a voting jurisdiction, and the
    plebiscite shall be conducted under fair and equitable standards in
    each voting jurisdiction. The Administering Authority of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, after consultation with the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, shall fix the date on which the plebiscite shall be
    called in each voting jurisdiction. The plebiscite shall be called
    jointly by the Administering Authority of the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands and the other Signatory Government concerned.
    The results of the plebiscite in each voting jurisdiction shall be
    determined by a majority of the valid ballots cast in that voting
    jurisdiction.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                    "CONFERENCE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION                

      "Section 421
      "The Government of the United States shall confer promptly at the
    request of the Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated
    States of Micronesia and any of those Governments shall confer
    promptly at the request of the Government of the United States on
    matters relating to the provisions of this Compact or of its
    related agreements.

      "Section 422
      "In the event the Government of the United States, or the
    Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia, after conferring pursuant to Section 421, determines
    that there is a dispute and gives written notice thereof, the
    Governments which are parties to the dispute shall make a good
    faith effort to resolve the dispute among themselves.

      "Section 423
      "If a dispute between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia cannot be resolved within 90 days of written
    notification in the manner provided in Section 422, either party to
    the dispute may refer it to arbitration in accordance with Section
    424.

      "Section 424
      "Should a dispute be referred to arbitration as provided for in
    Section 423, an Arbitration Board shall be established for the
    purpose of hearing the dispute and rendering a decision which shall
    be binding upon the two parties to the dispute unless the two
    parties mutually agree that the decision shall be advisory.
    Arbitration shall occur according to the following terms:
      "(a) An Arbitration Board shall consist of a Chairman and two
    other members, each of whom shall be a citizen of a party to the
    dispute. Each of the two Governments which is a party to the
    dispute shall appoint one member to the Arbitration Board. If
    either party to the dispute does not fulfill the appointment
    requirements of this Section within 30 days of referral of the
    dispute to arbitration pursuant to Section 423, its member on the
    Arbitration Board shall be selected from its own standing list by
    the other party to the dispute. Each Government shall maintain a
    standing list of 10 candidates. The parties to the dispute shall
    jointly appoint a Chairman within 15 days after selection of the
    other members of the Arbitration Board. Failing agreement on a
    Chairman, the Chairman shall be chosen by lot from the standing
    lists of the parties to the dispute within 5 days after such
    failure.
      "(b) The Arbitration Board shall have jurisdiction to hear and
    render its final determination on all disputes arising exclusively
    under Articles I, II, III, IV and V of Title One, Title Two, Title
    Four and their related agreements.
      "(c) Each member of the Arbitration Board shall have one vote.
    Each decision of the Arbitration Board shall be reached by majority
    vote.
      "(d) In determining any legal issue, the Arbitration Board may
    have reference to international law and, in such reference, shall
    apply as guidelines the provisions set forth in Article 38 of the
    Statute of the International Court of Justice.
      "(e) The Arbitration Board shall adopt such rules for its
    proceedings as it may deem appropriate and necessary, but such
    rules shall not contravene the provisions of this Compact. Unless
    the parties provide otherwise by mutual agreement, the Arbitration
    Board shall endeavor to render its decision within 30 days after
    the conclusion of arguments. The Arbitration Board shall make
    findings of fact and conclusions of law and its members may issue
    dissenting or individual opinions. Except as may be otherwise
    decided by the Arbitration Board, one-half of all costs of the
    arbitration shall be borne by the Government of the United States
    and the remainder shall be borne by the other party to the dispute.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                                "AMENDMENT                            

      "Section 431
      "The provisions of this Compact may be amended as to the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia and as to the Government of the United States at any
    time by mutual agreement.

      "Section 432
      "The provisions of this Compact may be amended as to any one of
    the Governments of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia and as to the Government of the United States at any
    time by mutual agreement. The effect of any amendment made pursuant
    to this Section shall be restricted to the relationship between the
    Governments agreeing to such amendment, but the other Governments
    signatory to this Compact shall be notified promptly by the
    Government of the United States of any such amendment.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "TERMINATION                           

      "Section 441
      "This Compact may be terminated as to any one of the Governments
    of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia and
    as to the Government of the United States by mutual agreement and
    subject to Section 451.

      "Section 442
      "This Compact may be terminated by the Government of the United
    States as to the Government of the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia subject to Section 452, such
    termination to be effective on the date specified in the notice of
    termination by the Government of the United States but not earlier
    than six months following delivery of such notice. The time
    specified in the notice of termination may be extended.

      "Section 443
      "This Compact shall be terminated, pursuant to their respective
    constitutional processes, by the Government of the Marshall Islands
    or the Federated States of Micronesia subject to Section 453 if the
    people represented by such Government vote in a plebiscite to
    terminate. Such Government shall notify the Government of the
    United States of its intention to call such a plebiscite which
    shall take place not earlier than three months after delivery of
    such notice. The plebiscite shall be administered by such
    Government in accordance with its constitutional and legislative
    processes, but the Government of the United States may send its own
    observers and invite observers from a mutually agreed party. If a
    majority of the valid ballots cast in the plebiscite favors
    termination, such Government shall, upon certification of the
    results of the plebiscite, give notice of termination to the
    Government of the United States, such termination to be effective
    on the date specified in such notice but not earlier than three
    months following the date of delivery of such notice. The time
    specified in the notice of termination may be extended.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "SURVIVABILITY                          

      "Section 451
      "Should termination occur pursuant to Section 441, economic
    assistance by the Government of the United States shall continue on
    mutually agreed terms.

      "Section 452
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to Section 442, the
    following provisions of this Compact shall remain in full force and
    effect until the fifteenth anniversary of the effective date of
    this Compact between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia and thereafter as mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and Sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Article I and Section 233 of Title Two;
        "(3) Title Three; and
        "(4) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) The Government of the United States shall also provide the
    Government as to which termination occurs pursuant to Section 442
    with either the programs or services provided pursuant to Article
    II of Title Two as the time of termination, or their equivalent, as
    determined by the Government of the United States. Such assistance
    shall continue until the fifteenth anniversary of the effective
    date of this Compact, and thereafter as mutually agreed.

      "Section 453
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to Section 443, the
    following provisions of this Compact shall remain in full force and
    effect until the fifteenth anniversary of the effective date of
    this Compact between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia and thereafter as mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and Sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Title Three; and
        "(3) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) Upon receipt of notice of termination pursuant to Section
    443, the Government of the United States and the Government so
    terminating shall promptly consult with regard to their future
    relationship. These consultations shall determine the level of
    economic assistance which the Government of the United States shall
    provide to the Government so terminating for the period ending on
    the fifteenth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact
    provided that the annual amounts specified in Sections 211, 212,
    214, 215 and 216 shall continue without diminution. Such amounts,
    with the exception of those specified in Section 216, shall be
    adjusted according to the formula set forth in Section 217.

      "Section 454
      "Notwithstanding any other provision of this Compact:
      "(a) The Government of the United States reaffirms its continuing
    interest in promoting the long-term economic advancement and self-
    sufficiency of the peoples of the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) The separate agreements referred to in Article II of the
    Title Three shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms
    which shall also determine the duration of Section 213.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                           "DEFINITION OF TERMS                       

      "Section 461
      "For the purpose of this Compact only and without prejudice to
    the views of the Government of the United States or the Government
    of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia as to
    the nature and extent of the jurisdiction under international law
    of any of them, the following terms shall have the following
    meanings:
      "(a) 'Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' means the area
    established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the
    administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, the Marshall
    Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust Territory Code,
    Section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term does not include
    the area of Palau or the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "(b) 'Trusteeship Agreement' means the agreement setting forth
    the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations
    April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered into
    force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8 U.N.T.S. 189.
      "(c) 'The Marshall Islands' and 'the Federated States of
    Micronesia' are used in a geographic sense and include the land and
    water areas to the outer limits of the territorial sea and the air
    space above such areas as now or hereafter recognized by the
    Government of the United States.
      "(d) 'Government of the Marshall Islands' means the Government
    established and organized by the Constitution of the Marshall
    Islands including all the political subdivisions and entities
    comprising that Government.
      " 'Government of the Federated States of Micronesia' means the
    Government established and organized by the Constitution of the
    Federated States of Micronesia including all the political
    subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
      "(e) The following terms shall be defined consistent with the
    1976 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International
    Telecommunications Union (ISBN 92-61-0081-5) as follows:
        "(1) 'Radio Communications' means telecommunication by means of
      radio waves.
        "(2) 'Station' means one or more transmitters or receivers or a
      combination of transmitters and receivers, including the
      accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on a
      radio communication service; each station shall be classified by
      the service in which it operates permanently or temporarily.
        "(3) 'Broadcasting Service' means a radio communication service
      in which the transmissions are intended for direct reception by
      the general public, and which may include sound transmissions,
      television transmissions or other types of transmissions.
        "(4) 'Broadcasting Station' means a station in the broadcasting
      service.
      "(f) 'Frequency Assignment' means the same as 'Frequency
    Assignment' means in the 1976 Edition of the Radio Regulations of
    the International Telecommunications Union (ISBN 92-61-0081-5).
      "(g) 'Habitual Residence' means a place of general abode or a
    principal, actual dwelling place of a continuing or lasting nature;
    provided, however, that this term shall not apply to the residence
    of any person who entered the United States for the purpose of full-
    time studies as long as such person maintains that status, or who
    has been physically present in the United States, the Marshall
    Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia for less than one
    year, or who is a dependent of a resident representative, as
    described in Section 152.
      "(h) For the purposes of Article IV of Title One of this Compact:
        "(1) 'Actual Residence' means physical presence in the Marshall
      Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia during eighty-five
      percent of the period of residency required by Section 141(a)(3);
      and
        "(2) 'Certificate of Actual Residence' means a certificate
      issued to a naturalized citizen by the Government which has
      naturalized him stating that the citizen has complied with the
      actual residence requirement of Section 141(a)(3).
      "(i) 'Military Areas and Facilities' means those areas and
    facilities in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia reserved or acquired by the Government of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia for use by the
    Government of the United States, as set forth in the separate
    agreements referred to in Section 321.
      "(j) 'Capital Account' means, for each year of the Compact, those
    portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of
    Title Two, adjusted by Section 217, which are to be obligated for:
        "(1) the construction or major repair of capital
      infrastructure; or
        "(2) public and private sector projects identified in the
      official overall economic development plan.
      "(k) 'Current Account' means, for each year of the Compact, those
    portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of
    Title Two, adjusted by Section 217, which are to be obligated for
    recurring operational activities including infrastructure
    maintenance as identified in the annual budget justifications
    submitted yearly to the Government of the United States.
      "(l) 'Official Overall Economic Development Plan' means the
    documented program of annual development which identifies the
    specific policy and project activities necessary to achieve a
    specified set of economic goals and objectives during the period of
    free association, consistent with the economic assistance authority
    in Title Two. Such a document should include an analysis of
    population trends, manpower requirements, social needs, gross
    national product estimates, resource utilization, infrastructure
    needs and expenditures, and the specific private sector projects
    required to develop the local economy of the Marshall Islands or
    the Federated States of Micronesia. Project identification should
    include initial cost estimates, with project purposes related to
    specific development goals and objectives.
      "(m) 'Tariff Schedules of the United States' means the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and as
    promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as amended.
      "(n) 'Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations' means the Vienna
    Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961, 23 U.S.T.
    3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95.

      "Section 462
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia, as
    appropriate, shall conclude related agreements which shall come
    into effect and shall survive in accordance with their terms, as
    follows:
      "(a) Agreement Regarding the Provision of Telecommunication
    Services by the Government of the United States to the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant
    to Section 131 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(b) Agreement Regarding the Operation of Telecommunication
    Services of the Government of the United States in the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant
    to Section 132 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(c) Agreement on Extradition, Mutual Assistance in Law
    Enforcement Matters and Penal Sanctions Concluded Pursuant to
    Section 175 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(d) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
    the Government of the Marshall Islands for the Implementation of
    Section 177 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(e) Federal Programs and Services Agreement Concluded Pursuant
    to Article II of Title Two and Section 232 of the Compact of Free
    Association;
      "(f) Agreement Concluded Pursuant to Section 234 of the Compact
    of Free Association;
      "(g) Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of
    the Government of the United States in the Marshall Islands
    Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free
    Association;
      "(h) Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of
    the Government of the United States in the Federated States of
    Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Sections 227, 321 and 323 of the
    Compact of Free Association;
      "(i) Status of Forces Agreement Concluded Pursuant to Section 323
    of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(j) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding
    Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant to
    Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association; and
      "(k) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
    the Government of the Marshall Islands Regarding Mutual Security
    Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free
    Association.

      "Section 463
      "(a) Except as set forth in Section 463(b), any reference in this
    Compact to a provision of the United States Code or the Statutes at
    Large of the United States constitutes the incorporation of the
    language of such provision into this Compact, as such provision was
    in force on January 1, 1980.
      "(b) Any reference in Article VI of Title One and Sections 131,
    174, 175, 178 and 342 to a provision of the United States Code or
    the Statutes at Large of the United States or to the Privacy Act,
    the Freedom of Information Act or the Administrative Procedure Act
    constitutes the incorporation of the language of such provision
    into this Compact as such provision is in force on the effective
    date of this Compact or as it may be amended thereafter on a non-
    discriminatory basis according to the constitutional processes of
    the United States.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                          "CONCLUDING PROVISIONS                      

      "Section 471
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia agree
    that they have full authority under their respective Constitutions
    to enter into this Compact and its related agreements and to
    fulfill all of their respective responsibilities in accordance with
    the terms of this Compact and its related agreements. The
    Governments pledge that they are so committed.
      "(b) Each of the Governments of the United States, the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia shall take all
    necessary steps, of a general or particular character, to ensure,
    not later than the effective date of this Compact, the conformity
    of its laws, regulations and administrative procedures with the
    provisions of this Compact.
      "(c) Without prejudice to the effects of this Compact under
    international law, this Compact has the force and effect of a
    statute under the laws of the United States.

      "Section 472
      "This Compact may be accepted, by signature or otherwise, by the
    Government of the United States, the Government of the Marshall
    Islands, and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.
    Each Government accepting this Compact shall possess an original
    English language version.
      "IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized, have
    signed this Compact of Free Association which shall come into
    effect in accordance with its terms between the Government of the
    United States and each of the other Governments signatory to this
    Compact.

                "DONE AT HONOLULU, HAWAII, THIS 1ST DAY OF            

              "OCTOBER, ONE THOUSAND, NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY-TWO          

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                       "THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                   
    "ambassador fred m. zeder, ii
      "president's personal representative
        "for micronesian status negotiations

                "DONE AT HONOLULU, HAWAII, THIS 1ST DAY OF            

              "OCTOBER, ONE THOUSAND, NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY-TWO          

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                    "THE FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA                
    "honorable andon l. amaraich
      "chairman, commission on future
        "political status and transition

             "DONE AT MAJURO, MARSHALL ISLANDS, THIS 25TH DAY         

            "OF JUNE, ONE THOUSAND, NINE HUNDRED, EIGHTY-THREE        

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                       "THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                   
    "ambassador fred m. zeder, ii
      "president's personal representative
        "for micronesian status negotiations

             "DONE AT MAJURO, MARSHALL ISLANDS, THIS 25TH DAY         

             "OF JUNE, ONE THOUSAND, NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY-THREE         

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                           "THE MARSHALL ISLANDS                       
    "president amata kabua
      "president of the republic
        "of the marshall islands".
      [Pub. L. 108-108, title I, Nov. 10, 2003, 117 Stat. 1261, which
    directed amendment of section 231 of Pub. L. 99-239, was executed
    by amending section 231 of the Compact of Free Association, set out
    above, to reflect the probable intent of Congress. Pub. L. 99-239,
    which sets out the Compact, does not contain a section 231.]
      [For abolition of Immigration and Naturalization Service,
    transfer of functions, and treatment of related references, see
    note set out under section 1551 of Title 8, Aliens and
    Nationality.]
      [For transfer of all functions, personnel, assets, components,
    authorities, grant programs, and liabilities of the Federal
    Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of the Under
    Secretary for Federal Emergency Management relating thereto, to the
    Federal Emergency Management Agency, see section 315(a)(1) of Title
    6, Domestic Security.]
      [For transfer of functions, personnel, assets, and liabilities of
    the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including the functions of
    the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency relating
    thereto, to the Secretary of Homeland Security, and for treatment
    of related references, see former section 313(1) and sections
    551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic Security, and the
    Department of Homeland Security Reorganization Plan of November 25,
    2002, as modified, set out as a note under section 542 of Title 6.]
      [For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of
    the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the
    Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of
    Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see
    sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic
    Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization
    Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under
    section 542 of Title 6.]
      [For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law
    requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other
    regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103-7 (in
    which reporting requirements under section 211(c) of the Compact of
    Free Association, set out above, are listed as the 5th and 6th
    items on page 115), see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended,
    set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and
    Finance.]

      CLARIFICATION OF CERTAIN TRADE AND TAX PROVISIONS OF COMPACT OF
                             FREE ASSOCIATION
      Title IV of Pub. L. 99-239 provided that:

      "SEC. 401. FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES TARIFF TREATMENT.
      "(a) Section 242. - Section 242 of the Compact [set out above]
    shall be construed and applied as if it read as follows:

      " 'Section 242
      " 'The President shall proclaim the following tariff treatment
    for articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia or
    the Marshall Islands which shall apply during the period of
    effectiven[e]ss of this title:
        " '(1) Unless otherwise excluded, articles imported from the
      Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, subject
      to the limitations imposed under sections 503(b) and 504(c) of
      title 5 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2463(b); 2464(c)),
      shall be exempt from duty.
        " '(2) Only canned tuna provided for in item 112.30 of the
      Tariff Schedules of the United States that is imported from the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands during
      any calendar year not to exceed 10 percent of the United States
      consumption of canned tuna during the immediately preceding
      calendar year, as reported by the National Marine Fisheries
      Service, shall be exempt from duty; but the quantity of tuna
      given duty free treatment under this paragraph for any calendar
      year shall be counted against the aggregate quantity of canned
      tuna that is dutiable under rate column numbered 1 of such item
      112.30 for that calendar year.
        " '(3) The duty-free treatment provided under paragraph (1)
      shall not apply to - 
          " '(A) watches, clocks, and timing apparatus provided for in
        subpart E of part 2 of schedule 7 of the Tariff Schedules of
        the United States;
          " '(B) buttons (whether finished or not finished) provided
        for in item 745.32 of such Schedules;
          " '(C) textile and apparel articles which are subject to
        textile agreements; and
          " '(D) footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves,
        and leather wearing apparel which were not eligible articles
        for purposes of chapter V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
        2461, et seq.) on April 1, 1984.
        " '(4) If the cost or value of materials produced in the
      customs territory of the United States is included with respect
      to an eligible article which is a product of the Federated States
      of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, an amount not to exceed 15
      percent of the appraised value of the article at the time it is
      entered that is attributable to such United States cost or value
      may be applied for duty assessment purposes toward determining
      the percentage referred to in section 503(b)(2) of title V of the
      Trade Act of 1974.'.
      "(b) Section 243. - Section 243 of the Compact shall be construed
    and applied as if it read as follows:

      " 'Section 243
      " 'Articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia or
    the Marshall Islands which are not exempt from duty under
    paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of section 242 shall be subject
    to the rates of duty set forth in column numbered 1 of the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States and all products of the United
    States imported into the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    Marshall Islands shall receive treatment no less favorable than
    that accorded like products of any foreign country with respect to
    customs duties or charges of a similar nature and with respect to
    laws and regulations relating to importation, exportation,
    taxation, sale, distribution, storage, or use.'.

      "SEC. 402. CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION 253 OF THE COMPACT.
      "(a) Subsection (a) of section 253 of the Compact shall not
    apply.
      "(b) Subsection (b) of section 253 of the Compact shall apply
    only to individuals who are nonresidents and not citizens of the
    United States.

      "SEC. 403. CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION 254 OF THE COMPACT.
      "The relief from liability referred to in the second sentence of
    section 254(a) of the Compact means only - 
        "(1) relief in the form of the foreign tax credit (or deduction
      in lieu thereof) available with respect to the income taxes of a
      possession of the United States, and
        "(2) relief in the form of the exclusion under section 911 of
      the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 911].

      "SEC. 404. CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION 255 OF THE COMPACT.
      "Section 255 of the Compact shall be construed and applied as if
    it read as follows:

      " 'Section 255
      " '(a) Extension of Section 936 to the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia. - For purposes of section 936 of
    the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall be treated as if they were
    possessions of the United States.
      " '(b) Exchange of Information. - Subsection (a) shall not apply
    to the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia (as
    the case may be) for any period after December 31, 1986, during
    which there is not in effect between the appropriate government and
    the United States an exchange of information agreement of the kind
    described in section 274(h)(6)(C) (other than clause (ii) thereof)
    of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
      " '(c) Procedure If Section 936 Incentives Reduced. - If the tax
    incentives extended to the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia under subsection (a) are, at any time during
    which the Compact is in effect, reduced, the Secretary of the
    Treasury shall negotiate an agreement with the Marshall Islands and
    the Federated States of Micronesia under which, when such agreement
    is approved by law, they will be provided with benefits
    substantially equivalent to such reduction in benefits. If, within
    the 1 year period after the date of the enactment of the Act making
    the reduction in benefits, an agreement negotiated under the
    preceding sentence is not approved by law, the matter shall be
    submitted to the Arbitration Board established pursuant to section
    424 of the Compact. For purposes of Article V of Title Two of the
    Compact, the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate shall be the
    member of such Board representing the Government of the United
    States. Any decision of such Board in the matter when approved by
    law shall be binding on the United States, except that such
    decision rendered is binding only as to whether the United States
    has provided the substantially equivalent benefits referred to in
    this subsection.'.

      "SEC. 405. THE MARSHALL ISLANDS AND THE FEDERATED STATES OF
        MICRONESIA TREATED AS NORTH AMERICAN AREA.
      "For purposes of section 274(h)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 274(h)(3)(A)], the term 'North American
    Area' shall include the Marshall Islands and the Federated States
    of Micronesia.

      "SEC. 406. EFFECTIVE DATE.
      "This title shall apply to income earned, and transactions
    occurring, after September 30, 1985, in taxable years ending after
    such date.

      "SEC. 407. STUDY OF TAX PROVISIONS.
      "The Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate - 
        "(1) shall conduct a study of the effects of the tax provisions
      of the Compact (as clarified by the foregoing provisions of this
      title), and
        "(2) shall report the results of such study before October 1,
      1987, to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of
      Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate.
      [The due date for the report referred to in section 407 of Pub.
    L. 99-239, set out above, was extended to Jan. 1, 1991 by Pub. L.
    101-508, title XI, Sec. 11831(b), Nov. 5, 1990, 104 Stat. 1388-
    559.]

      "SEC. 408. COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
      "Nothing in any provision of this joint resolution [see Short
    Title note above] (other than this title) which is inconsistent
    with any provision of this title shall have any force or effect."


-EXEC-
    EX. ORD. NO. 12569. MANAGEMENT OF COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION WITH
     REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS, FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA,
                           AND REPUBLIC OF PALAU
      Ex. Ord. No. 12569, Oct. 16, 1986, 51 F.R. 37171, as amended by
    Ex. Ord. No. 12877, Nov. 3, 1993, 58 F.R. 59159, provided:
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution
    and laws of the United States, including the Compact of Free
    Association (the Compact) [set out above] and Public Law 99-239,
    (the Act) [see Short Title note above], it is ordered as follows:
      Section 1. Responsibility of the Secretary of State. The
    Secretary of State shall conduct the government-to-government
    relations of the United States with the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of
    Palau (the "Freely Associated States"), including any subdivisions,
    officials or persons thereof, and may delegate or allocate such of
    his authority under this Order to such other United States
    officials as he may from time to time deem desirable. The authority
    of the Secretary of State shall include, consistent with Article V
    of Title One of the Compact and section 105(b)(1) of the Act [48
    U.S.C. 1905(b)(1)], the establishment and maintenance of
    representative offices in the Freely Associated States and
    supervision of the United States representatives and their staff.
    The Secretary also shall provide, in accordance with applicable
    law, for appropriate privileges, immunities, and assistance to
    representatives to the United States designated by the Governments
    of the Freely Associated States, together with their officers and
    staff. In accordance with applicable law and the provisions of this
    Order, the Secretary also shall have the authority and
    responsibility to take such other actions as may be necessary and
    appropriate to ensure that the authorities and obligations of the
    United States set forth in the Compact and its related agreements
    and in the laws of the United States as they relate to the conduct
    of government-to-government relations with the Freely Associated
    States are carried out. The Secretary shall provide from
    appropriations made to the Department of State such funds as may be
    necessary to carry out the provisions of this Order in relation to
    the activities of the Department of State.
      Sec. 2. Responsibility of the Secretary of the Interior. The
    Secretary of the Interior shall be responsible for seeking the
    appropriation of funds for and, in accordance with the laws of the
    United States, shall make available to the Freely Associated States
    the United States economic and financial assistance appropriated
    pursuant to Article I of Title Two of the Compact; the grant,
    service, and program assistance appropriated pursuant to Article II
    of Title Two of the Compact; and all other United States assistance
    appropriated pursuant to the Compact and its related agreements.
    The Secretary shall coordinate and monitor any program or any
    activity by any department or agency of the United States provided
    to the Freely Associated States and shall coordinate and monitor
    related economic development planning. This Section shall not apply
    to services provided by the Department of Defense to the Freely
    Associated States or to activities pursuant to Section 1 of this
    Order, including activities under the Peace Corps Act [22 U.S.C.
    2501 et seq.].
      Sec. 3. Interagency Group on Freely Associated State Affairs and
    the Office of Freely Associated State Affairs.
      (a) There is established an Interagency Group on Freely
    Associated State Affairs for the purpose of providing guidance and
    oversight with respect to the establishment and implementation of
    policy concerning the Compact and United States relations with the
    Freely Associated States.
      (b) The Interagency Group shall consist of the Secretary of State
    or his designee, who shall chair the Group, and of the principal
    officers or their designees from the Departments of the Interior,
    Defense, Commerce, Energy, and Justice, the Organization of the
    Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Office of Management and Budget, the
    National Security Council, and such other departments and agencies
    as may from time to time be appropriate.
      (c) The Interagency Group shall make such recommendations as it
    shall deem appropriate to the President, through the Assistant to
    the President for National Security Affairs, concerning United
    States relations with the Freely Associated States. The Interagency
    Group also shall provide such guidance as it deems appropriate to
    departments and agencies delegated authority by this Order
    concerning administration of laws with respect to the Freely
    Associated States.
      (d) If any department or agency charged by this Order with
    implementation of the Compact or other laws of the United States
    with respect to the Freely Associated States concludes that
    noncompliance sanctions pursuant to section 105(g) of the Act [48
    U.S.C. 1905(g)] are appropriate, it shall make appropriate
    recommendations to the Interagency Group. The Interagency Group
    shall consider these recommendations and report its findings to the
    President for his review in making that determination.
      (e)(1) The Secretary of State shall be responsible for the
    conduct of United States relations with the Freely Associated
    States, carry out related matters, and provide appropriate support
    to the Interagency Group, bearing in mind the continued special
    relationship between the United States and the Freely Associated
    States.
      (2) The Secretaries of Defense and Interior may, to the extent
    permitted by law, delegate any or all of their respective
    authorities and responsibilities as described in this Order to the
    Secretary of State or his or her designee. The Secretary of State
    or his or her designee shall serve as Executive Secretary of the
    Interagency Group.
      (3) Personnel additional to that provided by the Secretary of
    State may be detailed to the Department of State by the Executive
    departments and agencies that are members of the Interagency Group,
    and by other agencies as appropriate. Executive departments and
    agencies shall, to the extent permitted by law, provide such
    information, advice, and administrative services and facilities to
    the Secretary of State as may be necessary to conduct United States
    relations with the Freely Associated States.
      Sec. 4. United States Representatives to the Freely Associated
    States. The United States Representative assigned to a Freely
    Associated State in accordance with Article V of Title One of the
    Compact shall represent the Government of the United States in an
    official capacity in that Freely Associated State, and shall
    supervise the actions of any Executive department or agency
    personnel assigned permanently or temporarily to that Freely
    Associated State.
      Sec. 5. Cooperation among Executive Departments and Agencies. All
    Executive departments and agencies shall cooperate in the
    effectuation of the provisions of this Order. The Interagency Group
    and the Secretary of State shall facilitate such cooperative
    measures. Nothing in this Order shall be construed to impair the
    authority and responsibility of the Secretary of Defense for
    security and defense matters in or relating to the Freely
    Associated States.
      Sec. 6. Delegation to the Secretary of the Interior. The
    following authorities are delegated to the Secretary of the
    Interior:
      (a) Reporting to the Congress on economic development plans
    prepared by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Government of the Marshall Islands, pursuant to sections
    102(b) and 103(b) of the Act [48 U.S.C. 1902(b), 1903(b)];
      (b) The determination required by section 103(e) of the Act
    concerning the qualifications of the investment management firm
    selected by the Government of the Marshall Islands;
      (c) Reporting to the Congress with respect to the impact of the
    Compact of Free Association on the United States territories and
    commonwealths and on the State of Hawaii, pursuant to section
    104(e)(2) of the Act [48 U.S.C. 1904(e)(2)]; and
      (d) Causing an annual audit to be conducted of the annual
    financial statements of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Government of the Marshall Islands, pursuant to
    section 110(b) of the Act [48 U.S.C. 1910(b)].
      Sec. 7. Delegation to the Secretary of State. The following
    authorities are delegated to the Secretary of State:
      (a) Reporting to the Congress on crimes in the Federated States
    of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands which have an impact upon
    United States jurisdictions, pursuant to sections 102(a)(4) and
    103(a)(4) of the Act [48 U.S.C. 1902(a)(4), 1903(a)(4)];
      (b) Submitting the certification and report to the Congress for
    purposes of section 5 of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 [22
    U.S.C. 1975], pursuant to section 104(f)(3) of the Act [48 U.S.C.
    1904(f)(3)]; and
      (c) Reporting, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense,
    to the Congress on determinations made regarding security and
    defense, pursuant to section 105(q) of the Act [former 48 U.S.C.
    1905(q)].
      Sec. 8. Supersession and Saving Provisions.
      (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 9 of this Order, prior
    Executive orders concerning the former Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands are hereby superseded and rendered inapplicable,
    except that the authority of the Secretary of the Interior as
    provided in applicable provisions of Executive Order No. 11021, as
    amended [formerly 48 U.S.C. 1681 note], shall remain in effect, in
    a manner consistent with this Order and pursuant to section
    105(c)(2) of the Act [48 U.S.C. 1905(c)(2)], to terminate the trust
    territory government and discharge its responsibilities, at which
    time the entirety of Executive Order No. 11021 shall be superseded.
      (b) Nothing in this Order shall be construed as modifying the
    rights or obligations of the United States under the provisions of
    the Compact or as affecting or modifying the responsibility of the
    Secretary of State and the Attorney General to interpret the rights
    and obligations of the United States arising out of or concerning
    the Compact.
      Sec. 9. Effective Date. This Order shall become effective with
    respect to a Freely Associated State simultaneously with the entry
    into force of the Compact for that State.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1902                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1902. Agreements with Federated States of Micronesia

-STATUTE-
    (a) Law enforcement assistance
      (1) Agreement
        The President of the United States shall negotiate with the
      Government of the Federated States of Micronesia an agreement
      pursuant to section 175 of the Compact which is in addition to
      the Agreement pursuant to such section dated October 1, 1982, and
      transmitted to the Congress by the President on February 20,
      1985. Such additional agreement shall provide as follows:
        (A) Mutual assistance in law enforcement
          The law enforcement agencies of the United States and the
        Federated States of Micronesia shall assist one another, as
        mutually agreed, in the prevention and investigation of crimes
        and the enforcement of the laws of the United States and the
        Federated States of Micronesia specified in subparagraph (C) of
        this paragraph. The United States and the Federated States of
        Micronesia will authorize mutual assistance with respect to
        investigations, inquiries, audits and related activities by the
        law enforcement agencies of both Governments in the United
        States and the Federated States of Micronesia. In conducting
        activities authorized in accordance with this section, the
        United States and the Federated States of Micronesia will act
        in accordance with the constitution and laws of the
        jurisdiction in which such activities are conducted.
        (B) Narcotics and control of illegal substances
          The United States and the Federated States of Micronesia will
        take all reasonable and necessary steps, as mutually agreed,
        based upon consultations in which the Attorney General or other
        designated official of each Government participates, to prevent
        the use of the lands, waters, and facilities of the United
        States or the Federated States of Micronesia for the purposes
        of cultivation of, production of, smuggling of, trafficking in,
        and abuse of any controlled substance as defined in section
        802(6) of title 21 and Schedules I through V of Subchapter II
        of the Controlled Substances Act of the Federated States of
        Micronesia, or for the distribution of any such substance to or
        from the Federated States of Micronesia or to or from the
        United States or any of its territories or commonwealths.
        (C) Other criminal laws
          Assistance provided pursuant to this subsection shall also
        extend to, but not be limited to, prevention and prosecution of
        violations of the laws of the United States and the laws of the
        Federated States of Micronesia related to terrorism, espionage,
        racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations, and financial
        transactions which advance the interests of any person engaging
        in unlawful activities, as well as the schedule of offenses set
        forth in Appendix A of the subsidiary agreement to section 175
        of the Compact.
      (2) Technical and training assistance
        Pursuant to sections 224 and 226 of the Compact, the United
      States shall provide non-reimbursable technical and training
      assistance as appropriate, including training and equipment for
      postal inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to
      enable the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to
      develop and adequately enforce laws of the Federated States of
      Micronesia and to cooperate with the United States in the
      enforcement of criminal laws of the United States. Funds
      appropriated pursuant to section 1905(l) of this title may be
      used to reimburse State or local agencies providing such
      assistance.
      (3) Consultation
        Any official, designated by this joint resolution or by the
      President to negotiate any agreement under this section, shall
      consult with affected law enforcement agencies prior to entering
      into such an agreement on behalf of the United States.
      (4) Report
        The President shall report annually to Congress on the
      implementation of this subsection. Such report shall provide
      statistical and other information about the incidence of crimes
      in the Federated States of Micronesia which have an impact upon
      United States jurisdictions, and propose measures which the
      United States and the Federated States of Micronesia should take
      in order better to prevent and prosecute violations of the laws
      of the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia. The
      reports required under section 2291(e) (!1) of title 22 shall
      include relevant information concerning the Federated States of
      Micronesia.

    (b) Economic development plans review process
      (1) Submission
        Notwithstanding section 211(b) of the Compact, the President
      may agree to an effective date for the Compact pursuant to
      section 1901(a) of this title if the Government of the Federated
      States of Micronesia agrees to submit economic development plans
      consistent with section 211(b) of the Compact to the Government
      of the United States for concurrence at intervals no greater than
      every 5 years for the duration of the Compact. Any capital
      construction project and any planned independent purchase of
      aircraft which is to be financed (directly or indirectly) through
      the use of funds provided under section 211 of the Compact shall
      be identified in the economic development plans.
      (2) United States Government review
        The United States shall not concur in those development plans
      described in paragraph (1) of this subsection until - 
          (A) after the President of the United States has conducted a
        review and reported the findings of the President to the
        Congress; and
          (B) the Congress has had 30 days (excluding days on which
        both Houses of Congress are not in session) to review the
        findings of the President.
      (3) Report
        The President shall complete the review under paragraph (2) and
      shall report the findings no later than 60 days after the
      President's receipt of such plans.
      (4) Views and comments
        The report shall include the views of the Secretary of the
      Interior, the Administrator of the Agency for International
      Development, and the heads of such other Executive departments as
      the President may decide to include in the report, as well as any
      comments which the Federated States of Micronesia may wish to
      have included.
    (c) Agreement on audits
      In accordance with section 233 of the Compact, the President of
    the United States, in consultation with the Comptroller General of
    the United States, shall negotiate with the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia modifications to the "Agreement
    Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of United States
    Economic Assistance, Programs and Services Provided in the Compact
    of Free Association", which shall provide as follows:
      (1) General authority of the GAO to audit
        (A) The Comptroller General of the United States (and his duly
      authorized representatives) shall have the authority to audit - 
          (i) all grants, program assistance, and other assistance
        provided to the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia under Articles I and II of Title Two of the Compact;
        and
          (ii) any other assistance provided by the Government of the
        United States to the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia.

      Such authority shall include authority for the Comptroller
      General to conduct or cause to be conducted any of the audits
      provided for in section 233 of the Compact. The authority
      provided in this paragraph shall continue for at least three
      years after the last such grant has been made or assistance has
      been provided.
        (B) The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized
      representatives) shall also have authority to review any audit
      conducted by or on behalf of the Government of the United States.
      In this connection, the Comptroller General shall have access to
      such personnel and to such records, documents, working papers,
      automated data and files, and other information relevant to such
      review.
      (2) GAO access to records
        (A) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller General (and
      his duly authorized representatives) shall have such access to
      the personnel and (without cost) to records, documents, working
      papers, automated data and files, and other information relevant
      to such audits. The Comptroller General may duplicate any such
      records, documents, working papers, automated data and files, or
      other information relevant to such audits.
        (B) Such records, documents, working papers, automated data and
      files, and other information regarding each such grant or other
      assistance shall be maintained for at least three years after the
      date such grant or assistance was provided and in a manner that
      permits such grants, assistance, and payments to be accounted for
      distinct from any other funds of the Government of the Federated
      States of Micronesia.
      (3) Representative status for GAO representatives
        The Comptroller General and his duly authorized representatives
      shall be accorded the status set forth in Article V of Title One
      of the Compact.
      (4) Annual financial statements
        As part of the annual report submitted by the Government of the
      Federated States of Micronesia under section 211 of the Compact,
      the Government shall include annual financial statements which
      account for the use of all of the funds provided by the
      Government of the United States to the Government under the
      Compact or otherwise. Such financial statements shall be prepared
      in accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures,
      except as may otherwise be mutually agreed. Not later than 180
      days after the end of the United States fiscal year with respect
      to which such funds were provided, each such statement shall be
      submitted to the President for audit and transmission to the
      Congress.
      (5) "Audits" defined
        As used in this subsection, the term "audits" includes
      financial, program, and management audits, including determining -
       
          (A) whether the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia has met the requirements set forth in the Compact,
        or any related agreement entered into under the Compact,
        regarding the purposes for which such grants and other
        assistance are to be used; and
          (B) the propriety of the financial transactions of the
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia pursuant to
        such grants or assistance.
      (6) Cooperation by Federated States of Micronesia
        The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia will
      cooperate fully with the Comptroller General of the United States
      in the conduct of such audits as the Comptroller General
      determines necessary to enable the Comptroller General to fully
      discharge his responsibilities under this joint resolution.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 102, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1775.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3) and (c)(6),
    is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known
    as the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, which is classified
    principally to this part and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this
    title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.
      Section 2291(e) of title 22, referred to in subsec. (a)(4), was
    repealed and section 2291(i) of title 22, relating to definitions,
    was redesignated section 2291(e) by Pub. L. 102-583, Sec. 6(b)(2),
    (3), Nov. 2, 1992, 106 Stat. 4932. See sections 2291h and 2291i of
    Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
      For Oct. 21, 1986, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands, and Nov. 3, 1986, as the
    effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the
    Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), see
    Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out as a note
    under section 1801 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law
    requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other
    regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103-7 (in
    which reports required under subsecs. (a)(4) and (c)(4) of this
    section are listed as the 12th and last items on page 37), see
    section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended, set out as a note under
    section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1903                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1903. Agreements with and other provisions related to Marshall
      Islands

-STATUTE-
    (a) Law enforcement assistance
      (1) Agreement
        The President of the United States shall negotiate with the
      Government of the Marshall Islands an agreement pursuant to
      section 175 of the Compact which is in addition to the Agreement
      pursuant to such section dated May 30, 1982, and transmitted to
      the Congress by the President on February 20, 1985. Such
      additional agreement shall provide as follows:
        (A) Mutual assistance in law enforcement
          The law enforcement agencies of the United States and the
        Marshall Islands shall assist one another, as mutually agreed,
        in the prevention and investigation of crimes and the
        enforcement of the laws of the United States and the Marshall
        Islands specified in subparagraph (C) of this paragraph. The
        United States and the Marshall Islands will authorize mutual
        assistance with respect to investigations, inquiries, audits
        and related activities by the law enforcement agencies of both
        Governments in the United States and the Marshall Islands. In
        conducting activities authorized in accordance with this
        section, the United States and the Marshall Islands will act in
        accordance with the constitution and laws of the jurisdiction
        in which such activities are conducted.
        (B) Narcotics and control of illegal substances
          The United States and the Marshall Islands will take all
        reasonable and necessary steps, as mutually agreed, based upon
        consultations in which the Attorney General or other designated
        official of each Government participates, to prevent the use of
        the lands, waters, and facilities of the United States or the
        Marshall Islands for the purposes of cultivation of, production
        of, smuggling of, trafficking in, and abuse of any controlled
        substance as defined in section 802(6) of title 21 and
        Schedules I through V of Subchapter II of the Controlled
        Substances Act of the Marshall Islands, or for the distribution
        of any such substance to or from the Marshall Islands or to or
        from the United States or any of its territories or
        commonwealths.
        (C) Other criminal laws
          Assistance provided pursuant to this subsection shall also
        extend to, but not be limited to, prevention and prosecution of
        violations of the laws of the United States and the laws of the
        Marshall Islands related to terrorism, espionage, racketeer
        influenced and corrupt organizations, and financial
        transactions which advance the interests of any person engaging
        in unlawful activities, as well as the schedule of offenses set
        forth in Appendix A of the subsidiary agreement to section 175
        of the Compact.
      (2) Technical and training assistance
        Pursuant to sections 224 and 226 of the Compact, the United
      States shall provide non-reimbursable technical and training
      assistance as appropriate, including training and equipment for
      postal inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to
      enable the Government of the Marshall Islands to develop and
      adequately enforce laws of the Marshall Islands and to cooperate
      with the United States in the enforcement of criminal laws of the
      United States. Funds appropriated pursuant to section 1905(l) of
      this title may be used to reimburse State or local agencies
      providing such assistance.
      (3) Consultation
        Any official, designated by this joint resolution or by the
      President to negotiate any agreement under this section, shall
      consult with affected law enforcement agencies prior to entering
      into such an agreement on behalf of the United States.
      (4) Report
        The President shall report annually to Congress on the
      implementation of this subsection. Such report shall provide
      statistical and other information about the incidence of crimes
      in the Marshall Islands which have an impact upon United States
      jurisdictions, and propose measures which the United States and
      the Marshall Islands should take in order better to prevent and
      prosecute violations of the laws of the United States and the
      Marshall Islands. The reports required under section 2291(e) (!1)
      of title 22 shall include relevant information concerning the
      Marshall Islands.

    (b) Economic development plans review process
      (1) Submission
        Notwithstanding section 211(b) of the Compact, the President
      may agree to an effective date for the Compact pursuant to
      section 1901(b) of this title if the Government of the Marshall
      Islands agrees to submit economic development plans consistent
      with section 211(b) of the Compact to the Government of the
      United States for concurrence at intervals no greater than every
      5 years for the duration of the Compact. Any capital construction
      project and any planned independent purchase of aircraft which is
      to be financed (directly or indirectly) through the use of funds
      provided under section 211 of the Compact shall be identified in
      the economic development plans.
      (2) United States Government review
        The United States shall not concur in those development plans
      described in paragraph (1) of this subsection until - 
          (A) after the President of the United States has conducted a
        review and reported the findings of the President to the
        Congress; and
          (B) the Congress has had 30 days (excluding days on which
        both Houses of Congress are not in session) to review the
        findings of the President.
      (3) Report
        The President shall complete the review under paragraph (2) and
      shall report the findings no later than 60 days after the
      President's receipt of such plans.
      (4) Views and comments
        The report shall include the views of the Secretary of the
      Interior, the Administrator of the Agency for International
      Development, and the heads of such other Executive departments as
      the President may decide to include in the report, as well as any
      comments which the Marshall Islands may wish to have included.
    (c) Ejit
      (1) The President of the United States shall negotiate with the
    Government of the Marshall Islands an agreement whereby, without
    prejudice as to any claims which have been or may be asserted by
    any party as to rightful title and ownership of any lands on Ejit,
    the Government of the Marshall Islands shall assure that lands on
    Ejit used as of January 1, 1985, by the people of Bikini, will
    continue to be available without charge for their use, until such
    time as Bikini is restored and inhabitable and the continued use of
    Ejit is no longer necessary, unless a Marshall Islands court of
    competent jurisdiction finally determines that there are legal
    impediments to continued use of Ejit by the people of Bikini.
      (2) If the impediments described in paragraph (1) do arise, the
    United States will cooperate with the Government of the Marshall
    Islands in assisting any person adversely affected by such judicial
    determination to remain on Ejit, or in locating suitable and
    acceptable alternative lands for such person's use.
      (3) Paragraph (1) shall not be applied in a manner which would
    prevent the Government of the Marshall Islands from acting in
    accordance with its constitutional processes to resolve title and
    ownership claims with respect to such lands or from taking
    substitute or additional measures to meet the needs of the people
    of Bikini with their democratically expressed consent and approval.
    (d) Kwajalein payments
      (1) Statement of policy
        The Congress of the United States hereby declares that it is
      the policy of the United States that payment of funds by the
      Government of the Marshall Islands to the landowners of Kwajalein
      Atoll in accordance with the land use agreement dated October 19,
      1982, and the related allocation agreements, is required in order
      to ensure that the Government of the United States will be able
      to fulfill its obligations and responsibilities under Title Three
      of the Compact and the subsidiary agreements concluded pursuant
      thereto.
      (2) Failure to pay
        In the event that the Government of the Marshall Islands fails
      to make payments in accordance with paragraph (1) of this
      subsection, the Government of the United States shall initiate
      procedures under Section 313 of the Compact and consult with the
      Government of the Marshall Islands with respect to the basis for
      such non-payment of funds. The United States shall expeditiously
      resolve the matter of any non-payment of funds as described in
      paragraph (1) of this subsection pursuant to Section 313 of the
      Compact and the authority and responsibility of the Government of
      the United States for security and defense matters in or relating
      to the Marshall Islands. This paragraph shall be enforced, as may
      be necessary, in accordance with section 1905(g)(2) of this
      title.
      (3) Assistance
        The President is hereby authorized to make loans and grants to
      the Government of the Marshall Islands for the sole use of the
      Kwajalein Atoll Development Authority for the benefit of the
      Kwajalein landowners of amounts sought by such authority for
      development purposes, pursuant to a development plan for
      Kwajalein Atoll which such authority has adopted in accordance
      with applicable laws of the Marshall Islands. Such loans and
      grants shall be subject to such other terms and conditions as the
      President, in his discretion, may determine appropriate and
      necessary.
    (e) Section 177 Agreement
      (1) In furtherance of the purposes of Article I of the Subsidiary
    Agreement for Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact, the
    payment of the amount specified therein shall be made by the United
    States under Article I of the Agreement between the Government of
    the United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands for
    the Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact (hereafter in this
    subsection referred to as the "Section 177 Agreement") only after
    the Government of the Marshall Islands has notified the President
    of the United States as to which investment management firm has
    been selected by such Government to act as Fund Manager under
    Article I of the Section 177 Agreement.
      (2) In the event that the President determines that an investment
    management firm selected by the Government of the Marshall Islands
    does not meet the requirements specified in Article I of the
    Section 177 Agreement, the United States shall invoke the
    conference and dispute resolution procedures of Article II of Title
    Four of the Compact. Pending the resolution of such a dispute and
    until a qualified Fund Manager has been designated, the Government
    of the Marshall Islands shall place the funds paid by the United
    States pursuant to Article I of the Section 177 Agreement into an
    interest-bearing escrow account. Upon designation of a qualified
    Fund Manager, all funds in the escrow account shall be transferred
    to the control of such Fund Manager for management pursuant to the
    Section 177 Agreement.
      (3) If the Government of the Marshall Islands determines that
    some other investment firm should act as Fund Manager in place of
    the firm first (or subsequently) selected by such Government, the
    Government of the Marshall Islands shall so notify the President of
    the United States, identifying the firm selected by such Government
    to become Fund Manager, and the President shall proceed to evaluate
    the qualifications of such identified firm.
      (4) At the end of 15 years after the effective date of the
    Compact, the firm then acting as Fund Manager shall transfer to the
    Government of the Marshall Islands, or to such account as such
    Government shall so notify the Fund Manager, all remaining funds
    and assets being managed by the Fund Manager under the Section 177
    Agreement.
      (5) An annual report concerning all actions of the Fund Manager
    pursuant to the Section 177 Agreement and this joint resolution,
    including information prepared by the Fund Manager, shall be
    transmitted by the Government of the Marshall Islands to the
    Congress. Such report shall include such information (whether
    received from the Fund Manager or any other source) as relates to
    the disbursements provided for in Article II of the Section 177
    Agreement. Such report shall be made public.
    (f) Nuclear test effects
      In approving the Compact, the Congress understands and intends
    that the peoples of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik, who were
    affected by the United States nuclear weapons testing program in
    the Marshall Islands, will receive the amounts of $75,000,000
    (Bikini); $48,750,000 (Enewetak),(!2) $37,500,000 (Rongelap); and
    $22,500,000 (Utrik), respectively, which amounts shall be paid out
    of proceeds from the fund established under Article I, section 1 of
    the subsidiary agreement for the implementation of section 177 of
    the Compact. The amounts specified in this subsection shall be in
    addition to any amounts which may be awarded to claimants pursuant
    to Article IV of the subsidiary agreement for the implementation of
    Section 177 of the Compact.

    (g) Espousal provisions
      (1) It is the intention of the Congress of the United States that
    the provisions of section 177 of the Compact of Free Association
    and the Agreement between the Government of the United States and
    the Government of the Marshall Islands for the Implementation of
    Section 177 of the Compact (hereafter in this subsection referred
    to as the "Section 177 Agreement") constitute a full and final
    settlement of all claims described in Articles X and XI of the
    Section 177 Agreement, and that any such claims be terminated and
    barred except insofar as provided for in the Section 177 Agreement.
      (2) In furtherance of the intention of Congress as stated in
    paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Section 177 Agreement is
    hereby ratified and approved. It is the explicit understanding and
    intent of Congress that the jurisdictional limitations set forth in
    Article XII of such Agreement are enacted solely and exclusively to
    accomplish the objective of Article X of such Agreement and only as
    a clarification of the effect of Article X, and are not to be
    construed or implemented separately from Article X.
    (h) DOE radiological health care program; USDA agricultural and
      food programs
      (1) Marshall Islands program
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of
      the Government of the Marshall Islands, the President (either
      through an appropriate department or agency of the United States
      or by contract with a United States firm) shall continue to
      provide special medical care and logistical support thereto for
      the remaining 174 members of the population of Rongelap and Utrik
      who were exposed to radiation resulting from the 1954 United
      States thermonuclear "Bravo" test, pursuant to Public Laws 95-134
      and 96-205. Such medical care and its accompanying logistical
      support shall total $22,500,000 over the first 11 years of the
      Compact.
      (2) Agricultural and food programs
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of
      the Government of the Marshall Islands, for the first fifteen
      years after the effective date of the Compact, the President
      (either through an appropriate department or agency of the United
      States or by contract with a United States firm or by a grant to
      the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands which may
      further contract only with a United States firm or a Republic of
      the Marshall Islands firm, the owners, officers and majority of
      the employees of which are citizens of the United States or the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands) shall provide technical and
      other assistance - 
          (A) without reimbursement, to continue the planting and
        agricultural maintenance program on Enewetak;
          (B) without reimbursement, to continue the food programs of
        the Bikini, Rongelap, Utrik, and Enewetak people described in
        section 1(d) of Article II of the Subsidiary Agreement for the
        Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact and for continued
        waterborne transportation of agricultural products to Enewetak
        including operations and maintenance of the vessel used for
        such purposes. The President shall ensure the assistance
        provided under these programs reflects the changes in the
        population since the inception of such programs.
      (3) Payments
        Payments under this subsection shall be provided to such extent
      or in such amounts as are necessary for services and other
      assistance provided pursuant to this subsection. It is the sense
      of Congress that after the periods of time specified in
      paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, consideration will be
      given to such additional funding for these programs as may be
      necessary.
    (i) Rongelap
      (1) Because Rongelap was directly affected by fallout from a 1954
    United States thermonuclear test and because the Rongelap people
    remain unconvinced that it is safe to continue to live on Rongelap
    Island, it is the intent of Congress to take such steps (if any) as
    may be necessary to overcome the effects of such fallout on the
    habitability of Rongelap Island, and to restore Rongelap Island, if
    necessary, so that it can be safely inhabited. Accordingly, it is
    the expectation of the Congress that the Government of the Marshall
    Islands shall use such portion of the funds specified in Article
    II, section 1(e) of the subsidiary agreement for the implementation
    of section 177 of the Compact as are necessary for the purpose of
    contracting with a qualified scientist or group of scientists to
    review the data collected by the Department of Energy relating to
    radiation levels and other conditions on Rongelap Island resulting
    from the thermonuclear test. It is the expectation of the Congress
    that the Government of the Marshall Islands, after consultation
    with the people of Rongelap, shall select the party to review such
    data, and shall contract for such review and for submission of a
    report to the President of the United States and the Congress as to
    the results thereof.
      (2) The purpose of the review referred to in paragraph (1) of
    this subsection shall be to establish whether the data cited in
    support of the conclusions as to the habitability of Rongelap
    Island, as set forth in the Department of Energy report entitled:
    "The Meaning of Radiation for Those Atolls in the Northern Part of
    the Marshall Islands That Were Surveyed in 1978", dated November
    1982, are adequate and whether such conclusions are fully supported
    by the data. If the party reviewing the data concludes that such
    conclusions as to habitability are fully supported by adequate
    data, the report to the President of the United States and the
    Congress shall so state. If the party reviewing the data concludes
    that the data are inadequate to support such conclusions as to
    habitability or that such conclusions as to habitability are not
    fully supported by the data, the Government of the Marshall Islands
    shall contract with an appropriate scientist or group of scientists
    to undertake a complete survey of radiation and other effects of
    the nuclear testing program relating to the habitability of
    Rongelap Island. Such sums as are necessary for such survey and
    report concerning the results thereof and as to steps needed to
    restore the habitability of Rongelap Island are authorized to be
    made available to the Government of the Marshall Islands.
      (3) It is the intent of Congress that such steps (if any) as are
    necessary to restore the habitability of Rongelap Island and return
    the Rongelap people to their homeland will be taken by the United
    States in consultation with the Government of the Marshall Islands
    and, in accordance with its authority under the Constitution of the
    Marshall Islands, the Rongelap local government council.
    (j) Four atoll health care program
      (1) Services provided by the United States Public Health Service
    or any other United States agency pursuant to section 1(a) of
    Article II of the Agreement for the Implementation of Section 177
    of the Compact (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the
    "Section 177 Agreement") shall be only for services to the people
    of the Atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik who were
    affected by the consequences of the United States nuclear testing
    program, pursuant to the program described in Public Law 95-134 and
    Public Law 96-205 and their descendants (and any other persons
    identified as having been so affected if such identification occurs
    in the manner described in such public laws). Nothing in this
    subsection shall be construed as prejudicial to the views or
    policies of the Government of the Marshall Islands as to the
    persons affected by the consequences of the United States nuclear
    testing program.
      (2) At the end of the first year after the effective date of the
    Compact and at the end of each year thereafter, the providing
    agency or agencies shall return to the Government of the Marshall
    Islands any unexpended funds to be returned to the Fund Manager (as
    described in Article I of the Section 177 Agreement) to be covered
    into the Fund to be available for future use.
      (3) The Fund Manager shall retain the funds returned by the
    Government of the Marshall Islands pursuant to paragraph (2) of
    this subsection, shall invest and manage such funds, and at the end
    of 15 years after the effective date of the Compact, shall make
    from the total amount so retained and the proceeds thereof annual
    disbursements sufficient to continue to make payments for the
    provision of health services as specified in paragraph (1) of this
    subsection to such extent as may be provided in contracts between
    the Government of the Marshall Islands and appropriate United
    States providers of such health services.
    (k) Enjebi Community Trust Fund
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the
    Treasury shall establish on the books of the Treasury of the United
    States a fund having the status specified in Article V of the
    subsidiary agreement for the implementation of Section 177 of the
    Compact, to be known as the "Enjebi Community Trust Fund"
    (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the "Fund"), and shall
    credit to the Fund the amount of $7,500,000. Such amount, which
    shall be ex gratia, shall be in addition to and not charged against
    any other funds provided for in the Compact and its subsidiary
    agreements, this joint resolution, or any other Act. Upon receipt
    by the President of the United States of the agreement described in
    this subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury, upon request of the
    Government of the Marshall Islands, shall transfer the Fund to the
    Government of the Marshall Islands, provided that the Government of
    the Marshall Islands agrees as follows:
      (1) Enjebi trust agreement
        The Government of the Marshall Islands and the Enewetak Local
      Government Council, in consultation with the people of Enjebi,
      shall provide for the creation of the Enjebi Community Trust Fund
      and the employment of the manager of the Enewetak Fund
      established pursuant to the Section 177 Agreement as trustee and
      manager of the Enjebi Community Trust Fund, or, should the
      manager of the Enewetak Fund not be acceptable to the people of
      Enjebi, another United States investment manager with substantial
      experience in the administration of trusts and with funds under
      management in excess of 250 million dollars.
      (2) Monitor conditions
        Upon the request of the Government of the Marshall Islands, the
      United States shall monitor the radiation and other conditions on
      Enjebi and within one year of receiving such a request shall
      report to the Government of the Marshall Islands when the people
      of Enjebi may resettle Enjebi under circumstances where the
      radioactive contamination at Enjebi, including contamination
      derived from consumption of locally grown food products, can be
      reduced or otherwise controlled to meet whole body Federal
      radiation protection standards for the general population,
      including mean annual dose and mean 30-year cumulative dose
      standards.
      (3) Resettlement of Enjebi
        In the event that the United States determines that the people
      of Enjebi can within 25 years of January 14, 1986, resettle
      Enjebi under the conditions set forth in paragraph (2) of this
      subsection, then upon such determination there shall be available
      to the people of Enjebi from the Fund such amounts as are
      necessary for the people of Enjebi to do the following, in
      accordance with a plan developed by the Enewetak Local Government
      Council and the people of Enjebi, and concurred with by the
      Government of the Marshall Islands to assure consistency with the
      government's overall economic development plan:
          (A) Establish a community on Enjebi Island for the use of the
        people of Enjebi.
          (B) Replant Enjebi with appropriate food-bearing and other
        vegetation.
      (4) Resettlement of other location
        In the event that the United States determines that within 25
      years of January 14, 1986, the people of Enjebi cannot resettle
      Enjebi without exceeding the radiation standards set forth in
      paragraph (2) of this subsection, then the fund manager shall be
      directed by the trust instrument to distribute the Fund to the
      people of Enjebi for their resettlement at some other location in
      accordance with a plan, developed by the Enewetak Local
      Government Council and the people of Enjebi and concurred with by
      the Government of the Marshall Islands, to assure consistency
      with the government's overall economic development plan.
      (5) Interest from Fund
        Prior to and during the distribution of the corpus of the Fund
      pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4) of this subsection, the people
      of Enjebi may, if they so request, receive the interest earned by
      the Fund on no less frequent a basis than quarterly.
      (6) Disclaimer of liability
        Neither under the laws of the Marshall Islands nor under the
      laws of the United States, shall the Government of the United
      States be liable for any loss or damage to person or property in
      respect to the resettlement of Enjebi by the people of Enjebi,
      pursuant to the provision of this subsection or otherwise.
    (l) Bikini Atoll cleanup
      (1) Declaration of policy
        The Congress hereby determines and declares that it is the
      policy of the United States, to be supported by the full faith
      and credit of the United States, that because the United States,
      through its nuclear testing and other activities, rendered Bikini
      Atoll unsafe for habitation by the people of Bikini, the United
      States will fulfill its responsibility for restoring Bikini Atoll
      to habitability, as set forth in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this
      subsection.
      (2) Cleanup funds
        There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are
      necessary to implement the settlement agreement of March 15,
      1985, in The People of Bikini, et al. against United States of
      America, et al., Civ. No. 84-0425 (D. Ha.).
      (3) Conditions of funding
        The funds referred to in paragraph (2) shall be made available
      pursuant to Article VI, Section 1 of the Compact Section 177
      Agreement upon completion of the events set forth in the
      settlement agreement referred to in paragraph (2) of this
      subsection.
    (m) Agreement on audits
      In accordance with section 233 of the Compact, the President of
    the United States, in consultation with the Comptroller General of
    the United States, shall negotiate with the Government of the
    Marshall Islands an agreement which shall provide as follows:
      (1) General authority of GAO to audit
        (A) The Comptroller General of the United States (and his duly
      authorized representatives) shall have the authority to audit - 
          (i) all grants, program assistance, and other assistance
        provided to the Government of the Marshall Islands under
        Articles I and II of Title Two of the Compact; and
          (ii) any other assistance provided by the Government of the
        United States to the Government of the Marshall Islands.

      Such authority shall include authority for the Comptroller
      General to conduct or cause to be conducted any of the audits
      provided for in section 233 of the Compact. The authority
      provided in this paragraph shall continue for at least three
      years after the last such grant has been made or assistance has
      been provided.
        (B) The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized
      representatives) shall also have authority to review any audit
      conducted by or on behalf of the Government of the United States.
      In this connection, the Comptroller General shall have access to
      such personnel and to such records, documents, working papers,
      automated data and files, and other information relevant to such
      review.
      (2) GAO access to records
        (A) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller General (and
      his duly authorized representatives) shall have such access to
      the personnel and (without cost) to records, documents, working
      papers, automated data and files, and other information relevant
      to such audits. The Comptroller General may duplicate any such
      records, documents, working papers, automated data and files, or
      other information relevant to such audits.
        (B) Such records, documents, working papers, automated data and
      files, and other information regarding each such grant or other
      assistance shall be maintained for at least three years after the
      date such grant or assistance was provided and in a manner that
      permits such grants, assistance, and payments to be accounted for
      distinct from any other funds of the Government of the Marshall
      Islands.
      (3) Representative status for GAO representatives
        The Comptroller General and his duly authorized representatives
      shall be accorded the status set forth in Article V of Title One
      of the Compact.
      (4) Annual financial statements
        As part of the annual report submitted by the Government of the
      Marshall Islands under section 211 of the Compact, the Government
      shall include annual financial statements which account for the
      use of all of the funds provided by the Government of the United
      States to the Government under the Compact or otherwise. Such
      financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting procedures, except as may otherwise
      be mutually agreed. Not later than 180 days after the end of the
      United States fiscal year with respect to which such funds were
      provided, each such statement shall be submitted to the President
      for audit and transmission to the Congress.
      (5) "Audits" defined
        As used in this subsection, the term "audits" includes
      financial, program, and management audits, including determining -
       
          (A) whether the Government of the Marshall Islands has met
        the requirements set forth in the Compact, or any related
        agreement entered into under the Compact, regarding the
        purposes for which such grants and other assistance are to be
        used; and
          (B) the propriety of the financial transactions of the
        Government of the Marshall Islands pursuant to such grants or
        assistance.
      (6) Cooperation by Marshall Islands
        The Government of the Marshall Islands will cooperate fully
      with the Comptroller General of the United States in the conduct
      of such audits as the Comptroller General determines necessary to
      enable the Comptroller General to fully discharge his
      responsibilities under this joint resolution.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 103, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1778;
    Pub. L. 100-446, title I, Sec. 115, Sept. 27, 1988, 102 Stat. 1802;
    Pub. L. 102-247, title III, Sec. 304, Feb. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 39;
    Pub. L. 105-209, Sec. 2, July 29, 1998, 112 Stat. 880.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsecs. (a)(3), (e)(5),
    (k), and (m)(6), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770,
    as amended, known as the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985,
    which is classified principally to this part and chapter 19 (Sec.
    2001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of
    this title and Tables.
      Section 2291(e) of title 22, referred to in subsec. (a)(4), was
    repealed and section 2291(i) of title 22, relating to definitions,
    was redesignated section 2291(e) by Pub. L. 102-583, Sec. 6(b)(2),
    (3), Nov. 2, 1992, 106 Stat. 4932. See sections 2291h and 2291i of
    Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse.
      For Oct. 21, 1986, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands, and Nov. 3, 1986, as the
    effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the
    Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsecs. (b)(1),
    (e)(4), (h)(2), and (j)(2), (3), see Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986,
    51 F.R. 40399, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      Public Law 95-134, referred to in subsecs. (h)(1) and (j)(1), is
    Pub. L. 95-134, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1159, as amended, popularly
    known as the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 96-205, referred to in subsecs. (h)(1) and (j)(1), is
    Pub. L. 96-205, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 84, as amended. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1998 - Subsec. (h)(2). Pub. L. 105-209, Sec. 2(1), substituted
    "fifteen years" for "ten years" in introductory provisions.
      Subsec. (h)(2)(B). Pub. L. 105-209, Sec. 2(2), inserted at end
    "The President shall ensure the assistance provided under these
    programs reflects the changes in the population since the inception
    of such programs."
      1992 - Subsec. (h)(2). Pub. L. 102-247 substituted "ten years"
    for "five years" in introductory provisions.
      1988 - Subsec. (h)(2). Pub. L. 100-446, in introductory
    provisions, inserted "or by a grant to the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands which may further contract only
    with a United States firm or a Republic of the Marshall Islands
    firm, the owners, officers and majority of the employees of which
    are citizens of the United States or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands" after "United States firm" and, in subpar. (B), inserted
    ", Rongelap, Utrik," after "Bikini".

                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions of law
    requiring submittal to Congress of any annual, semiannual, or other
    regular periodic report listed in House Document No. 103-7 (in
    which reports required under subsecs. (a)(4), (e)(5), and (m)(4) of
    this section are listed, respectively, as the 2nd item on page 38,
    the 16th item on page 115, and the 12th item on page 37), see
    section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended, set out as a note under
    section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance.

               TAX EXEMPTION FOR ENJEBI COMMUNITY TRUST FUND           
      Pub. L. 100-647, title VI, Sec. 6136, Nov. 10, 1988, 102 Stat.
    3723, provided that:
      "(a) In General. - Any earnings on, and distributions from, the
    Enjebi Community Trust Fund created under section 103 of the
    Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 [48 U.S.C. 1903] shall be
    exempt from all Federal, State, or local taxation.
      "(b) Effective Date. - The provisions of subsection (a) shall
    apply to all taxable years whether beginning before, on, or after
    the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 10, 1988]."

         MEDICAL CARE AND TREATMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH AND
      MONITORING PROGRAM FOR INHABITANTS OF BIKINI, ETC., ATOLLS FOR
       INJURY, ILLNESS, OR CONDITION RESULTING FROM NUCLEAR WEAPONS
         TESTING BY UNITED STATES; IMPLEMENTATION PLAN AND REPORT
      Pub. L. 95-134, title I, Sec. 106, as added by Pub. L. 96-205,
    title I, Sec. 102, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 84; amended by Pub. L.
    96-88, title V, Sec. 509(b), Oct. 17, 1979, 93 Stat. 695, provided
    that:
      "(a) In addition to any other payments or benefits provided by
    law to compensate inhabitants of the atolls of Bikini, Enewetak,
    Rongelap, and Utirik, in the Marshall Islands, for radiation
    exposure or other losses sustained by them as a result of the
    United States nuclear weapons testing program at or near their
    atolls during the period 1946 to 1958, the Secretary of the
    Interior (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
    'Secretary') shall provide for the people of the atolls of Bikini,
    Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utirik and for the people of such other
    atolls as may be found to be or to have been exposed to radiation
    from the nuclear weapons testing program, a program of medical care
    and treatment and environmental research and monitoring for any
    injury, illness, or condition which may be the result directly or
    indirectly of such nuclear weapons testing program. The program
    shall be implemented according to a plan developed by the Secretary
    in consultation with the Secretaries of Defense, Energy, and Health
    and Human Services and with the direct involvement of
    representatives from the people of each of the affected atolls and
    from the government of the Marshall Islands. The plan shall set
    forth, as appropriate to the situation, condition, and needs of the
    individual atoll peoples:
        "(1) an integrated, comprehensive health care program including
      primary, secondary, and tertiary care with special emphasis upon
      the biological effects of ionizing radiation;
        "(2) a schedule for the periodic comprehensive survey and
      analysis of the radiological status of the atolls to and at
      appropriate intervals, but not less frequently than once every
      five years, the development of an updated radiation dose
      assessment, together with an estimate of the risks associated
      with the predicted human exposure, for each such atoll; and
        "(3) an education and information program to enable the people
      of such atolls to more fully understand nuclear radiation and its
      effects;
      "(b)(1) The Secretary shall submit the plan to the Congress no
    later than January 1, 1981, together with his recommendations, if
    any, for further legislation. The plan shall set forth the specific
    agencies responsible for implementing the various elements of the
    plan. With respect to general health care the Secretary shall
    consider, and shall include in his recommendations, the feasibility
    of using the Public Health Service. After consultation with the
    Chairman of the National Academy of Sciences, the Secretary of
    Energy, the Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of Health and
    Human Services, the Secretary shall establish a scientific advisory
    committee to review and evaluate the implementation of the plan and
    to make such recommendations for its improvement as such committee
    deems advisable.
      "(2) At the request of the Secretary, any Federal agency shall
    provide such information, personnel, facilities, logistical
    support, or other assistance as the Secretary deems necessary to
    carry out the functions of this program; the costs of all such
    assistance shall be reimbursed to the provider thereof out of the
    sums appropriated pursuant to this section.
      "(3) All costs associated with the development and implementation
    of the plan shall be assumed by the Secretary of Energy and
    effective October 1, 1980, there are authorized to be appropriated
    to the Secretary of Energy such sums as may be necessary to achieve
    the purposes of this section.
      "(c) The Secretary shall report to the appropriate committees of
    the Congress, and to the people of the affected atolls annually, or
    more frequently if necessary, on the implementation of the plan.
    Each such report shall include a description of the health status
    of the individuals examined and treated under the plan, an
    evaluation by the scientific advisory committee, and any
    recommendations for improvement of the plan. The first such report
    shall be submitted not later than January 1, 1982."

      Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 8, Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat. 1460, provided
    that: "The Secretary of the Interior is directed to implement the
    health care program required by section 106 of Public Law 95-134
    (91 Stat. 1159) [set out above] for the populations of the four
    atolls in the Marshall Islands identified in such section
    immediately upon enactment of this section and shall promptly
    notify the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the
    Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the
    Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on
    Appropriations of the Senate if he finds that the populations of
    other atolls should be included in the program setting forth the
    basis for his finding and the estimated cost of extension of the
    program. The Secretary of Energy shall transmit annually to the
    Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs [now Committee on
    Natural Resources] and Appropriations of the House of
    Representatives and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources
    and Appropriations of the Senate together with the proposed budget
    for the next fiscal year, a description of the program and the
    estimated costs for implementation together with any
    recommendations which he may have for improvements in such
    program."

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.

    (!2) So in original. The comma probably should be a semicolon.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1904                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1904. Interpretation of and United States policy regarding
      Compact of Free Association

-STATUTE-
    (a) Human rights
      In approving the Compact, the Congress notes the conclusion in
    the Statement of Intent of the Report of The Future Political
    Status Commission of the Congress of Micronesia in July, 1969, that
    "our recommendation of a free associated state is indissolubly
    linked to our desire for such a democratic, representative,
    constitutional government" and notes that such desire and intention
    are reaffirmed and embodied in the Constitutions of the Federated
    States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands. The Congress also
    notes and specifically endorses the preamble to the Compact, which
    affirms that the governments of the parties to the Compact are
    founded upon respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for
    all. The Secretary of State shall include in the annual reports on
    the status of internationally recognized human rights in foreign
    countries, which are submitted to the Congress pursuant to sections
    116 and 502B of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 [22 U.S.C.
    2151n, 2304], a full and complete report regarding the status of
    internationally recognized human rights in the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands.
    (b) Immigration
      The rights of a bona fide naturalized citizen of the Marshall
    Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia to enter the United
    States, to lawfully engage therein in occupations, and to establish
    residence therein as a non-immigrant, pursuant to the provisions of
    section 141(a)(3) of the Compact, shall not extend to any such
    naturalized citizen with respect to whom circumstances associated
    with the acquisition of the status of a naturalized citizen are
    such as to allow a reasonable inference, on the part of appropriate
    officials of the United States and subject to United States
    procedural requirements, that such naturalized status was acquired
    primarily in order to obtain such rights.
    (c) Nonalienation of lands
      The Congress endorses and encourages the maintenance of the
    policies of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Government of the Marshall Islands to regulate, in
    accordance with their Constitutions and laws, the alienation of
    permanent and long-term interests in real property so as to
    restrict the acquisition of such interests to persons of Federated
    States of Micronesia citizenship and Marshall Islands citizenship,
    respectively.
    (d) Nuclear waste disposal
      In approving the Compact, the Congress understands that the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Government
    of the Marshall Islands will not permit any other government or any
    nongovernmental party to conduct, in the Marshall Islands or in the
    Federated States of Micronesia, any of the activities specified in
    subsection (a) of section 314 of the Compact.
    (e) Impact of Compact on U.S. areas
      (1) Statement of congressional intent
        In approving the Compact, it is not the intent of the Congress
      to cause any adverse consequences for the United States
      territories and commonwealths or the State of Hawaii.
      (2) Annual reports and recommendations
        One year after January 14, 1986, and at one year intervals
      thereafter, the Governor of any of the United States territories
      or commonwealths or the State of Hawaii may report to the
      Secretary of the Interior by February 1 of each year with respect
      to the impacts of the compacts of free association on the
      Governor's respective jurisdiction. The Secretary of the Interior
      shall review and forward any such reports to the Congress with
      the comments of the Administration. The Secretary of the Interior
      shall, either directly or, subject to available technical
      assistance funds, through a grant to the affected jurisdiction,
      provide for a census of Micronesians at intervals no greater than
      5 years from each decennial United States census using generally
      acceptable statistical methodologies for each of the impact
      jurisdictions where the Governor requests such assistance, except
      that the total expenditures to carry out this sentence may not
      exceed $300,000 in any year. Reports submitted pursuant to this
      paragraph (hereafter in this subsection referred to as "reports")
      shall identify any adverse consequences resulting from the
      Compact and shall make recommendations for corrective action to
      eliminate those consequences. The reports shall pay particular
      attention to matters relating to trade, taxation, immigration,
      labor laws, minimum wages, social systems and infrastructure, and
      environmental regulation. With regard to immigration, the reports
      shall include statistics concerning the number of persons
      availing themselves of the rights described in section 141(a) of
      the Compact during the year covered by each report. With regard
      to trade, the reports shall include an analysis of the impact on
      the economy of American Samoa resulting from imports of canned
      tuna into the United States from the Federated States of
      Micronesia and the Marshall Islands.
      (3) Other views
        In preparing the reports, the President shall request the views
      of the Government of the State of Hawaii, and the governments of
      each of the United States territories and commonwealths, the
      Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau,
      and shall transmit the full text of any such views to the
      Congress as part of such reports.
      (4) Commitment of Congress to redress adverse consequences
        The Congress hereby declares that, if any adverse consequences
      to United States territories and commonwealths or the State of
      Hawaii result from implementation of the Compact of Free
      Association, the Congress will act sympathetically and
      expeditiously to redress those adverse consequences.
      (5) "United States territories and commonwealths" defined
        As used in this subsection, the term "United States territories
      and commonwealths" means the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
      Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
      Northern Mariana Islands.
      (6) Impact costs
        There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years
      beginning after September 30, 1985, such sums as may be necessary
      to cover the costs, if any, incurred by the State of Hawaii, the
      territories of Guam and American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of
      the Northern Mariana Islands resulting from any increased demands
      placed on educational and social services by immigrants from the
      Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia.
    (f) Fisheries management
      In clarification of Title One, Article II, section 121(b)(1) of
    the Compact:
        (1) Nothing in the Compact or this joint resolution shall be
      interpreted as recognition by the United States of any claim by
      the Federated States of Micronesia or by the Marshall Islands to
      jurisdiction or authority over highly migratory species of fish
      during the time such species of fish are found outside the
      territorial sea of the Federated States of Micronesia or the
      Marshall Islands.
        (2) It is the understanding of Congress that none of the monies
      made available pursuant to the Compact or this joint resolution
      will be used by either the Federated States of Micronesia or the
      Marshall Islands for enforcement actions against any vessel of
      the United States on the basis of fishing by any such vessel for
      highly migratory species of fish outside the territorial sea of
      the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands,
      respectively, in the absence of a licensing agreement.
        (3) Appropriate United States officials shall apply the
      policies and provisions of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
      Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) and the
      Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1971 et seq.) with
      regard to any action taken by the Federated States of Micronesia
      or the Marshall Islands affecting any vessel of the United States
      engaged in fishing for highly migratory species of fish in waters
      outside the territorial seas of the Federated States of
      Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, respectively. For the purpose
      of applying the provisions of section 5 of the Fishermen's
      Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1975), monies made available to
      either the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands
      pursuant to the provisions of the Compact or this joint
      resolution shall be treated as "assistance to the government of
      such country under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961" [22 U.S.C.
      2151 et seq.]. For purposes of this Act only, certification by
      the President in accordance with such section 5 shall be
      accompanied by a report to Congress on the basis for such
      certification, and such certification shall have no effect if by
      law Congress so directs prior to the expiration of 60 days during
      which Congress is in continuous session following the date of
      such certification.
        (4) For the purpose of paragraphs (1) and (3) of this
      subsection - 
          (A) The term "vessel of the United States" has the same
        meaning as provided in the first section of the Fishermen's
        Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1971).
          (B) The terms "fishing" and "highly migratory species" have
        the same meanings as provided in paragraphs (10) and (14),(!1)
        respectively, of section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
        Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802(10) and (14)).


        (5)(A) It is the policy of the United States of America - 
          (i) to negotiate and conclude with the governments of the
        Central, Western, and South Pacific Ocean, including the
        Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands, a
        regional licensing agreement setting forth agreed terms of
        access for United States tuna vessels fishing in the region;
        and
          (ii) that such an agreement should overcome existing
        jurisdictional differences and provide for a mutually
        beneficial relationship between the United States and the
        Pacific Island States that will promote the development of the
        tuna and other latent fisheries resources of the Central,
        Western, and South Pacific Ocean and the economic development
        of the region.

        (B) At such time as an agreement referred to in subparagraph
      (A) is submitted to the Senate for advice and consent to
      ratification, the Secretary of State, after consultation with the
      Secretary of Commerce and other interested agencies and concerned
      governments, shall submit to the Congress a proposed long term
      regional fisheries development program which may include, but not
      be limited to - 
          (i) exploration for, and stock assessment of, tuna and other
        fish;
          (ii) improvement of harvesting techniques;
          (iii) gear development;
          (iv) biological resource monitoring;
          (v) education and training in the field of fisheries; and
          (vi) regional and direct bilateral assistance in the field of
        fisheries.
    (g) Foreign loans
      The Congress hereby reaffirms the United States position that the
    United States Government is not responsible for foreign loans or
    debt obtained by the Governments of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 104, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1788;
    Pub. L. 104-208, div. A, title I, Sec. 101(a) [title II, Sec.
    211(b)], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009, 3009-41; Pub. L. 106-504,
    Sec. 2, Nov. 13, 2000, 114 Stat. 2311.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      This joint resolution and this Act, referred to in subsec. (f)(1)
    to (3), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as
    amended, known as the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985,
    which is classified principally to this part and chapter 19 (Sec.
    2001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of
    this title and Tables.
      The Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act,
    referred to in subsec. (f)(3), is Pub. L. 94-265, Apr. 13, 1976, 90
    Stat. 331, as amended, which is classified principally to chapter
    38 (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of Title 16, Conservation. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1801 of Title 16 and Tables.
      The Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967, referred to in subsec.
    (f)(3), is act Aug. 27, 1954, ch. 1018, 68 Stat. 883, as amended,
    which is classified generally to chapter 25 (Sec. 1971 et seq.) of
    Title 22, Foreign Relations and Intercourse. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1971 of Title 22 and Tables.
      The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, referred to in subsec.
    (f)(3), is Pub. L. 87-195, Sept. 4, 1961, 75 Stat. 424, as amended,
    which is classified principally to chapter 32 (Sec. 2151 et seq.)
    of Title 22. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 2151 of Title 22 and
    Tables.
      Section 3 of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and
    Management Act [16 U.S.C. 1802], referred to in subsec. (f)(4)(B),
    was subsequently amended, and section 3(10) and (14) no longer
    define the terms "fishing" and "highly migratory species". However,
    such terms are defined elsewhere in that section.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2000 - Subsec. (e)(2). Pub. L. 106-504 substituted "Governor of
    any of the United States territories or commonwealths or the State
    of Hawaii may report to the Secretary of the Interior by February 1
    of each year with respect to the impacts of the compacts of free
    association on the Governor's respective jurisdiction. The
    Secretary of the Interior shall review and forward any such reports
    to the Congress with the comments of the Administration. The
    Secretary of the Interior shall, either directly or, subject to
    available technical assistance funds, through a grant to the
    affected jurisdiction, provide for a census of Micronesians at
    intervals no greater than 5 years from each decennial United States
    census using generally acceptable statistical methodologies for
    each of the impact jurisdictions where the Governor requests such
    assistance, except that the total expenditures to carry out this
    sentence may not exceed $300,000 in any year." for "President shall
    report to the Congress with respect to the impact of the Compact on
    the United States territories and commonwealths and on the State of
    Hawaii.".
      1996 - Subsec. (f)(3), (4)(B). Pub. L. 104-208 substituted
    "Magnuson-Stevens Fishery" for "Magnuson Fishery".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1996 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 101(a) [title II, Sec. 211(b)] of div. A of Pub. L. 104-
    208 provided that the amendment made by that section is effective
    15 days after Oct. 11, 1996.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1905                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1905. Supplemental provisions

-STATUTE-
    (a) Domestic program requirements
      Except as may otherwise be provided in this joint resolution, all
    United States Federal programs and services extended to or operated
    in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands are
    and shall remain subject to all applicable criteria, standards,
    reporting requirements, auditing procedures, and other rules and
    regulations applicable to such programs when operating in the
    United States (including its territories and commonwealths).
    (b) Relations with Federated States of Micronesia and Marshall
      Islands
      (1) The United States representatives to the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to
    Article V of title I of the Compact shall be appointed by the
    President with the advice and consent of the Senate, and shall be
    under the supervision of the Secretary of State, who shall have
    responsibility for government to government relations between the
    United States and the Government with respect to whom they are
    appointed, consistent with the authority of the Secretary of the
    Interior as set forth in this section.
      (2) Except for programs or services provided by or through other
    federal agencies or officials to the Federated States of Micronesia
    or the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or for which residents
    thereof are eligible pursuant to the Compact or any other provision
    of this joint resolution, appropriations made pursuant to the
    Compact or any other provision of this joint resolution may be made
    only to the Secretary of the Interior. The Secretary of the
    Interior shall coordinate and monitor any programs or activities,
    including such activities for which funding is made directly to
    such other agencies, provided to the Federated States of Micronesia
    or the Republic of the Marshall Islands by agencies of the
    Government of the United States and related economic development
    planning pursuant to the Compact or pursuant to any other
    authorization except for the provisions of sections 161(e), 313,
    and 351 of the Compact and the authorization of the President to
    agree to an effective date pursuant to this resolution. Funds
    appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to this
    paragraph shall not be allocated to other Departments or agencies,
    except that the Secretary of the Interior shall be able to
    reimburse Departments or agencies for purposes authorized by this
    joint resolution.
      (3) All programs and services provided to the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands by Federal
    agencies may be provided only after consultation with and under the
    supervision of the Secretary of the Interior, and the head of each
    Federal agency is directed to cooperate with the Secretary of the
    Interior and to make such personnel and services available as the
    Secretary of the Interior may request.
      (4) Any United States Government personnel assigned, on a
    temporary or permanent basis, to either the Federated States of
    Micronesia or the Marshall Islands shall, during the period of such
    assignment, be subject to the supervision of the United States
    representative to that area.
      (5) The President is hereby authorized to appoint an Interagency
    Group on Freely Associated States' Affairs to provide policy
    guidance to federal departments and agencies. Such interagency
    group shall include the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
    of State.
    (c) Continuing Trust Territory authorization
      The authorization provided by the Act of June 30, 1954, as
    amended (68 Stat. 330) shall remain available after the effective
    date of the Compact with respect to the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands for the following purposes:
        (1) Prior to October 1, 1986, for any purpose authorized by the
      Compact or this joint resolution.
        (2) Transition purposes, including but not limited to,
      completion of projects and fulfillment of commitments or
      obligations; termination of the Trust Territory Government and
      termination of the High Court; health and education as a result
      of exceptional circumstances; ex gratia contributions for the
      populations of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik; and
      technical assistance and training in financial management,
      program administration, and maintenance of infrastructure, except
      that, for purposes of an orderly reduction of United States
      programs and services in the Federated States of Micronesia, the
      Marshall Islands, and Palau, United States programs or services
      not specifically authorized by the Compact of Free Association or
      by other provisions of law may continue but, unless reimbursed by
      the respective freely associated state, not in excess of the
      following amounts:
          (1) For fiscal year 1987, an amount not to exceed 75 per
        centum of the total amount appropriated for such programs for
        fiscal year 1986;
          (2) For fiscal year 1988, an amount not to exceed 50 per
        centum of the total amount appropriated for such programs for
        fiscal year 1986;
          (3) For fiscal year 1989, an amount not to exceed 25 per
        centum of the total amount appropriated for such programs for
        fiscal year 1986.
    (d) Medical referral debts
      (1) Federated States of Micronesia
        In addition to the funds provided in Title Two, Article II,
      section 221(b) of the Compact, following approval of the Compact
      with respect to the Federated States of Micronesia, the United
      States shall make available to the Government of the Federated
      States of Micronesia such sums as may be necessary for the
      payment of the obligations incurred for the use of medical
      facilities in the United States, including any territories and
      commonwealths, by citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia
      before September 1, 1985.
      (2) Marshall Islands
        In addition to the funds provided in Title Two, Article II,
      section 221(b) of the Compact, following approval of the Compact
      with respect to the Marshall Islands, the United States shall
      make available to the Government of the Marshall Islands such
      sums as may be necessary for the payment of the obligations
      incurred for the use of medical facilities in the United States,
      its territories and commonwealths by citizens of the Marshall
      Islands before September 1, 1985.
      (3) Use of funds
        In making funds available pursuant to this subsection, the
      President shall take such actions as he deems necessary to assure
      that the funds are used only for the payment of the medical
      expenses described in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, as
      the case may be.
      (4) Authorization of appropriations
        There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
      be necessary for the purposes of this subsection.
    (e) Survivability
      In furtherance of the provisions of Title Four, Article V,
    sections 452 and 453 of the Compact, any provisions of the Compact
    which remain effective after the termination of the Compact by the
    act of any party thereto and which are affected in any manner by
    provisions of this part shall remain subject to such provisions.
    (f) Registration for agents of Governments of Federated States of
      Micronesia and Marshall Islands
      (1) In general
        Notwithstanding the provisions of Title One, Article V, section
      153 of the Compact, after approval of the Compact any citizen of
      the United States who, without authority of the United States,
      acts as the agent of the Government of the Marshall Islands or
      the Federated States of Micronesia with regard to matters
      specified in the provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration
      Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.) that apply with
      respect to an agent of a foreign principal shall be subject to
      the requirements of such Act. Failure to comply with such
      requirements shall subject such citizen to the same penalties and
      provisions of law as apply in the case of the failure of such an
      agent of a foreign principal to comply with such requirements.
      For purposes of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands shall be
      considered to be foreign countries.
      (2) Exception
        Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to a citizen
      of the United States employed by either the Government of the
      Marshall Islands or the Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia with respect to whom the employing Government from
      time to time certifies to the Government of the United States
      that such citizen is an employee of the Government of the
      Marshall Islands or the Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia (as the case may be) whose principal duties are other
      than those matters specified in the Foreign Agents Registration
      Act of 1938, as amended [22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.], that apply with
      respect to an agent of a foreign principal. The agency or officer
      of the United States receiving such certifications shall cause
      them to be filed with the Attorney General, who shall maintain a
      publicly available list of the persons so certified.
      (3) Resident representative exemption
        Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as amending
      Section 152(b) of the Compact.
    (g) Noncompliance sanctions
      (1) Authority of President
        The President of the United States shall have no authority to
      suspend or withhold payments or assistance with respect to - 
          (A) section 177, 213, 216(a)(2), 216(a)(3), 221(b), or 223 of
        the Compact, or
          (B) any agreements made pursuant to such sections of the
        Compact,

      unless such suspension or withholding is imposed as a sanction
      due to noncompliance by the Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia or the Government of the Marshall Islands (as the case
      may be) with the obligations and requirements of such sections of
      the Compact or such agreements.
      (2) Actions incompatible with United States authority
        The Congress expresses its understanding that the Governments
      of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands
      will not act in a manner incompatible with the authority and
      responsibility of the United States for security and defense
      matters in or related to the Federated States of Micronesia or
      the Marshall Islands pursuant to the Compact, including the
      agreements referred to in sections 462(j) and 462(k) thereof. The
      Congress further expresses its intention that any such act on the
      part of either such Government will be viewed by the United
      States as a material breach of the Compact. The Government of the
      United States reserves the right in the event of such a material
      breach of the Compact by the Government of the Federated States
      of Micronesia or the Government of the Marshall Islands to take
      action, including (but not limited to) the suspension in whole or
      in part of the obligations of the Government of the United States
      to that Government.
    (h) Continuing programs and laws
      (1) Federated States of Micronesia and Marshall Islands
        In addition to the programs and services set forth in section
      221 of the Compact, and pursuant to section 224 of the Compact,
      the programs and services of the following agencies shall be made
      available to the Federated States of Micronesia and to the
      Marshall Islands:
          (A) the Legal Services Corporation;
          (B) the Public Health Service; and
          (C) the Farmers Home Administration (in the Marshall Islands
        and each of the four States of the Federated States of
        Micronesia: Provided, that in lieu of continuation of the
        program in the Federated States of Micronesia, the President
        may agree to transfer to the Government of the Federated States
        of Micronesia without cost, the portfolio of the Farmers Home
        Loan Administration applicable to the Federated States of
        Micronesia and provide such technical assistance in management
        of the portfolio as may be requested by the Federated States of
        Micronesia).
      (2) Palau
        Upon the effective date of the Compact, the laws of the United
      States generally applicable to the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands shall continue to apply to the Republic of Palau and the
      Republic of Palau shall be eligible for such proportion of
      Federal assistance as it would otherwise have been eligible to
      receive under such laws prior to the effective date of the
      Compact, as provided in appropriation Acts or other Acts of
      Congress.
      (3) Section 219 determination
        The determination by the Government of the United States under
      section 219 of the Compact shall be as provided in appropriation
      Acts.
      (4) Tort claims
        (A) At such time as the Trusteeship Agreement ceases to apply
      to either the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall
      Islands, the provisions of Section 178 of the Compact regarding
      settlement and payment of tort claims shall apply to employees of
      any federal agency of the Government of the United States which
      provides any service or carries out any other function pursuant
      to or in furtherance of any provisions of the Compact or this
      Act, except for provisions of Title Three of the Compact and of
      the subsidiary agreements related to such Title, in such area to
      which such Agreement formerly applied. For purposes of this
      subparagraph (B),(!1) persons providing such service or carrying
      out such function pursuant to a contract with a federal agency
      shall be deemed to be an employee of the contracting federal
      agency.

        (B) For purposes of the Federal Tort Claims Act (28 U.S.C. 2671
      et seq.), persons providing services to the people of the atolls
      of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik as described in Public
      Law 95-134 and Public Law 96-205 pursuant to a contract with a
      Department or agency of the federal government shall be deemed to
      be an employee of the contracting Department or agency working in
      the United States. This subparagraph (B) shall expire when the
      Trusteeship Agreement is terminated with respect to the Marshall
      Islands.
      (5) Federal education grants
        Pursuant to section 224 of the Compact or section 224 of the
      Compact with Palau (as contained in title II of Public Law 99-
      658), the Pell Grant Program, the Supplemental Educational
      Opportunity Grant Program, and the College Work-Study Program (as
      authorized by title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 [20
      U.S.C. 1070 et seq.; 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.]) shall be extended
      to students who are, or will be, citizens of the Federated States
      of Micronesia, or the Marshall Islands and who attend
      postsecondary institutions in the United States, its territories
      and commonwealths, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
      the Federated States of Micronesia, or the Marshall Islands,
      except that this paragraph shall not apply to any student
      receiving assistance pursuant to section 223 of the Compact or
      section 223 of the Compact with Palau (as contained in title II
      of Public Law 99-658).
      (5) (!2) PCB cleanup

        The programs and services of the Environmental Protection
      Agency regarding PCB's shall, to the extent applicable, as
      appropriate, and in accordance with applicable law, be construed
      to be made available to such islands.
    (i) College of Micronesia; education programs
      (1) College of Micronesia
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, all funds which as
      of January 14, 1986, were appropriated for the use of the College
      of Micronesia System shall remain available for use by such
      college until expended. Until otherwise provided by Act of
      Congress, or until termination of the Compact, such college shall
      retain its status as a land-grant institution and its eligibility
      for all benefits and programs available to such land-grant
      institutions.
      (2) Federal education programs
        Pursuant to section 224 of the Compact and upon the request of
      the affected Government, any Federal program providing financial
      assistance for education which, as of January 1, 1985, was
      providing financial assistance for education to the Federated
      States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands or to any
      institution, agency, organization, or permanent resident thereof,
      including the College of Micronesia System, shall continue to
      provide such assistance to such institutions, agencies,
      organizations, and residents as follows:
          (A) For the fiscal year in which the Compact becomes
        effective, not to exceed $13,000,000;
          (B) For the fiscal year beginning after the end of the fiscal
        year in which the Compact becomes effective, not to exceed
        $8,700,000; and
          (C) For the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year
        described in subparagraph (B), not to exceed $4,300,000.
      (3) Authorization of appropriations
        There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are
      necessary for purposes of this subsection.
    (j) Trust Territory debts to U.S. Federal agencies
      Neither the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia nor
    the Government of the Marshall Islands shall be required to pay to
    any department, agency, independent agency, office, or
    instrumentality of the United States any amounts owed to such
    department, agency, independent agency, office, or instrumentality
    by the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as
    of the effective date of the Compact. There is authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
    purposes of this subsection.
    (k) Use of DOD medical facilities
      Following approval of the Compact, the Secretary of Defense shall
    make available the medical facilities of the Department of Defense
    for use by citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Marshall Islands who are properly referred to such facilities by
    government authorities responsible for provision of medical
    services in the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
    Islands. The Secretary of Defense is hereby authorized to cooperate
    with such authorities in order to permit use of such medical
    facilities for persons properly referred by such authorities. The
    Secretary of Health and Human Services is hereby authorized and
    directed to continue to make the services of the National Health
    Service Corps available to the residents of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands to the same extent and for so
    long as such services are authorized to be provided to persons
    residing in any other areas within or outside the United States.
    (l) Technical assistance
      Technical assistance may be provided pursuant to section 226 of
    the Compact by Federal agencies and institutions of the Government
    of the United States to the extent such assistance may be provided
    to States, territories, or units of local government. Such
    assistance by the Forest Service, the Soil Conservation Service,
    the Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Marine Fisheries
    Service, the United States Coast Guard, and the Advisory Council on
    Historic Preservation, the Department of the Interior, and other
    agencies providing assistance under the National Historic
    Preservation Act (80 Stat. 915; 16 U.S.C. 470-470t), shall be on a
    nonreimbursable basis. During the period the Compact is in effect,
    the grant programs under the National Historic Preservation Act
    shall continue to apply to the Federated States of Micronesia and
    the Marshall Islands in the same manner and to the same extent as
    prior to the approval of the Compact. Funds provided pursuant to
    sections 1902(a), 1903(a), 1903(c), 1903(h), 1903(i), 1903(j), and
    1903(l) of this title and subsections (c), (i), (j), (k), (l), (m),
    (n), and (o) of this section shall be in addition to and not
    charged against any amounts to be paid to either the Federated
    States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands pursuant to the
    Compact or the subsidiary agreements.
    (m) Prior Service Benefits Program
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, persons who on
    January 1, 1985, were eligible to receive payment under the Prior
    Service Benefits Program established within the Social Security
    System of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands because of
    their services performed for the United States Navy or the
    Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands prior to
    July 1, 1968, shall continue to receive such payments on and after
    the effective date of the Compact.
    (n) Indefinite land use payments
      There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to complete repayment by the United States of any debts
    owed for the use of various lands in the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands prior to January 1, 1985.
    (o) Communicable disease control program
      There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia such sums as may
    be necessary for purposes of establishing or continuing programs
    for the control and prevention of communicable diseases, including
    (but not limited to) cholera and Hansen's Disease. The Secretary of
    the Interior shall assist the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia in designing and implementing such a program.
    (p) Trust funds
      The responsibilities of the United States with regard to
    implementation of section 235 of the Compact shall be discharged by
    the Secretary of the Interior, who shall consult with the
    Government of the Marshall Islands and the designated beneficiaries
    of the funds held in trust by the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands.
    (q) Omitted
    (r) User fees
      Any person in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall
    Islands shall be liable for user fees, if any, for services
    provided in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall
    Islands by the Government of the United States to the same extent
    as any person in the United States would be liable for fees, if
    any, for such services in the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 105, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1791;
    Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 20(a), Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 844; Pub. L.
    99-658, title I, Sec. 104(c), Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3676; Pub.
    L. 100-369, Sec. 9, July 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 837; Pub. L. 102-486,
    title XXVII, Sec. 2704, Oct. 24, 1992, 106 Stat. 3120.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This joint resolution and this Act, referred to in subsecs. (a),
    (b)(2), (c)(1), and (h)(4), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99
    Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free Association
    Act of 1985, which is classified principally to this part and
    chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      For Oct. 21, 1986, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands, and Nov. 3, 1986, as the
    effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the
    Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsecs. (b)(2),
    (c), (h)(2), (j), and (m), see Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51
    F.R. 40399, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      Act of June 30, 1954, referred to in subsec. (c), is act June 30,
    1954, ch. 423, 68 Stat. 330, as amended, which enacted sections
    1681 and 1681b of this title and provisions set out as notes under
    section 1681 of this title. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Tables.
      The Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, referred to in
    subsec. (f)(1), (2), is act June 8, 1938, ch. 327, 52 Stat. 631, as
    amended, which is classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 611
    et seq.) of chapter 11 of Title 22, Foreign Relations and
    Intercourse. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 611 of Title 22 and
    Tables.
      The Federal Tort Claims Act, referred to in subsec. (h)(4)(B), is
    title IV of act Aug. 2, 1946, ch. 753, 60 Stat. 842, which was
    classified principally to chapter 20 (Secs. 921, 922, 931-934, 941-
    946) of former Title 28, Judicial Code and Judiciary. Title IV of
    act Aug. 2, 1946, was substantially repealed and reenacted as
    sections 1346(b) and 2671 et seq. of Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure, by act June 25, 1948, ch. 646, 62 Stat. 992,
    the first section of which enacted Title 28. The Federal Tort
    Claims Act is also commonly used to refer to chapter 171 of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure. For complete classification
    of title IV to the Code, see Tables. For distribution of former
    sections of Title 28 into the revised Title 28, see Table at the
    beginning of Title 28.
      Public Law 95-134, referred to in subsec. (h)(4)(B), is Pub. L.
    95-134, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1159, as amended, popularly known
    as the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 96-205, referred to in subsec. (h)(4)(B), is Pub. L.
    96-205, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 84, as amended. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Compact with Palau, referred to in subsec. (h)(5), is the
    Compact of Free Association with Palau, which is contained in
    section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a note under section 1931
    of this title.
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in subsec. (h)(5), is Pub. L. 99-
    658, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended. Title II of Pub.
    L. 99-658 enacted section 1934 of this title and provisions set out
    as a note under section 1931 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec. (h)(5),
    is Pub. L. 89-329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat. 1219, as amended. Title
    IV of the Act is classified generally to subchapter IV (Sec. 1070
    et seq.) of chapter 28 of Title 20, Education, and part C (Sec.
    2751 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 34 of Title 42, The Public
    Health and Welfare. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1001 of Title 20
    and Tables.
      The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec.
    (l), is Pub. L. 89-665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended,
    which is classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 470 et seq.)
    of chapter 1A of Title 16, Conservation. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470(a) of Title
    16 and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Subsec. (q) of this section, which required the President to
    report annually to Congress on determinations made by the United
    States in the exercise of its authority under section 313 of the
    Compact of Free Association between the Government of the United
    States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, terminated, effective May 15, 2000,
    pursuant to section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended, set out as
    a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and Finance. See,
    also, 14th item on page 37 of House Document No. 103-7.
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1992 - Subsec. (h)(5). Pub. L. 102-486 added par. (5) relating to
    PCB cleanup.
      1988 - Subsec. (h)(5). Pub. L. 100-369 added par. (5) relating to
    Federal education grants.
      1986 - Subsec. (b)(2). Pub. L. 99-396 amended par. (2) generally.
    Prior to amendment, par. (2) read as follows: "Appropriations made
    pursuant to the Compact or any other provision of this joint
    resolution may be made only to the Secretary of the Interior, who
    shall coordinate and monitor any program or activity provided to
    the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands by departments and agencies of the Government of the United
    States and related economic development planning pursuant to the
    Compact or pursuant to any other authorization except for the
    provisions of sections 161(e), 313, and 351 of the Compact and the
    authorization of the President to agree to an effective date
    pursuant to this resolution. Funds appropriated to the Secretary of
    the Interior pursuant to this paragraph shall not be allocated to
    other Departments or agencies."
      Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 99-658 substituted "infrastructure,
    except that, for purposes of an orderly reduction of United States
    programs and services in the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    Marshall Islands, and Palau, United States programs or services not
    specifically authorized by the Compact of Free Association or by
    other provisions of law may continue but, unless reimbursed by the
    respective freely associated state, not in excess of the following
    amounts:" and subpars. (1) to (3) for "infrastructure."


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of
    the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the
    Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of
    Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see
    sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic
    Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization
    Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under
    section 542 of Title 6.

           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC2-
     FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS; PROGRAMS AND
                SERVICES PROVIDED ON NONREIMBURSABLE BASIS
      Pub. L. 99-396, Sec. 20(b), Aug. 27, 1986, 100 Stat. 844,
    provided that: "The programs and services specified in section
    105(h)(1), sections [sic] 105(i)(1) and (2), section 111(a) [48
    U.S.C. 1905(h)(1), (i)(1), (2), 1911(a)], the services of the
    National Health Service Corps pursuant to section 105(k), and the
    Technical Assistance and National Historic Preservation Act [16
    U.S.C. 470 et seq.] grants pursuant to section 105(l), of Public
    Law 99-239 shall be provided on a nonreimbursable basis."

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original.

    (!2) So in original. Probably should be "(6)".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1906                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1906. Construction contract assistance

-STATUTE-
    (a) Assistance to U.S. firms
      In order to assist the Governments of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and of the Marshall Islands through private sector firms
    which may be awarded contracts for construction or major repair of
    capital infrastructure within the Federated States of Micronesia or
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the President shall consult
    with the Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Marshall Islands with respect to any such contracts, and the
    President shall enter into agreements with such firms whereby such
    firms will, consistent with applicable requirements of such
    Governments - 
        (1) to the maximum extent possible, employ citizens of the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall Islands;
        (2) to the extent that necessary skills are not possessed by
      citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
      Islands, provide on the job training, with particular emphasis on
      the development of skills relating to operation of machinery and
      routine and preventative maintenance of machinery and other
      facilities; and
        (3) provide specific training or other assistance in order to
      enable the Government to engage in long-term maintenance of
      infrastructure.

    Assistance by such firms pursuant to this section may not exceed 20
    percent of the amount of the contract and shall be made available
    only to such firms which meet the definition of United States firm
    under the nationality rule for suppliers of services of the Agency
    for International Development (hereafter in this section referred
    to as "United States firms"). There are authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the purposes of this
    subsection.
    (b) Authorization of appropriations
      There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to cover any additional costs incurred by the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands if such Governments, pursuant to an agreement
    entered into with the United States, apply a preference on the
    award of contracts to United States firms, provided that the amount
    of such preference does not exceed 10 percent of the amount of the
    lowest qualified bid from a non-United States firm for such
    contract.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 106, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1797.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1907                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1907. Limitations

-STATUTE-
    (a) Prohibition
      The provisions of Chapter 11 of title 18 shall apply in full to
    any individual who has served as the President's Personal
    Representative for Micronesian Status Negotiations or who is or was
    an officer or employee of the Office for Micronesian Status
    Negotiations or who is or was assigned or detailed to that Office
    or who served on the Micronesia Interagency Group, except that for
    the purposes of this section, clauses (i) and (ii) of section
    207(b) (!1) of such title shall read as follows: "(i) having been
    so employed, within three years after his employment has ceased,
    knowingly acts as agent or attorney for, or otherwise represents,
    any other person (except the United States), in any formal or
    informal appearance before, or, with the intent to influence, makes
    any oral or written communication on behalf of any other person
    (except the United States) to, or (ii) having been so employed and
    as specified in subsection (d) of this section, within three years
    after his employment has ceased, knowingly represents or aids,
    counsels, advises, consults, or assists in representing any other
    person (except the United States) by personal presence at any
    formal or informal appearance before - ".

    (b) Termination
      Effective upon the date of the termination of the Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands with respect to Palau, the Office for
    Micronesian Status Negotiations is abolished and no department,
    agency, or instrumentality of the United States shall thereafter
    contribute funds for the support of such Office.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 107, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1797.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 207 of title 18, referred to in subsec. (a), was amended
    generally by Pub. L. 101-194, title I, Sec. 101(a), Nov. 30, 1989,
    103 Stat. 1716, and, as so amended, subsec. (b) of that section no
    longer contains cls. (i) and (ii). For text of section 207 of Title
    18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure, as it appeared prior to
    amendment by Pub. L. 101-194, see Effective Date of 1989 Amendment;
    Effect on Employment note set out under section 207 of Title 18.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands with
    respect to Palau, see note set out preceding section 1681 of this
    title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1908                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1908. Transitional immigration rules

-STATUTE-
    (a) Citizen of Northern Mariana Islands
      Any person who is a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands, as
    that term is defined in section 24(b) of the Act of December 8,
    1983 (97 Stat. 1465), is considered a citizen of the United States
    for purposes of entry into, permanent residence, and employment in
    the United States and its territories and possessions.
    (b) Termination
      The provisions of this section shall cease to be effective when
    section 301 of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the
    Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union With the United States
    (Public Law 94-241) becomes effective pursuant to section 1003(c)
    of the Covenant.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 108, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1798.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 24(b) of the Act of December 8, 1983, referred to in
    subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 98-213, Sec. 24(b), Dec. 8, 1983, 97 Stat.
    1465, which was formerly set out as a note under section 1801 of
    this title.
      The Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union With the United States, referred to in
    subsec. (b), is contained in section 1 of Pub. L. 94-241, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1801 of this title. For
    November 4, 1986, as the effective date of section 301 of the
    Covenant, see Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out
    as a note under section 1801 of this title.
      Public Law 94-241, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 94-241,
    Mar. 24, 1976, 90 Stat. 263, as amended, which is classified
    generally to subchapter I (Sec. 1801 et seq.) of chapter 17 of this
    title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1909                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1909. Timing

-STATUTE-
      No payment may be made pursuant to the Compact nor under any
    provision of this joint resolution prior to October 1, 1985.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 109, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1798.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, as
    amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      This joint resolution, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-239,
    Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of
    Free Association Act of 1985, which is classified principally to
    this part and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1910                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1910. Implementation of audit agreements

-STATUTE-
    (a) Transmission of annual financial statement
      Upon receipt of the annual financial statement described in
    sections 1902(c)(4) and 1903(m)(4) of this title, the President
    shall promptly transmit a copy of such statement to the Congress.
    (b) Annual audits by President
      (1) The President shall cause an annual audit to be conducted of
    the annual financial statements described in sections 1902(c)(4)
    and 1903(m)(4) of this title. Such audit shall be conducted in
    accordance with the Generally Accepted Government Auditing
    Standards promulgated by the Comptroller General of the United
    States. Such audit shall be submitted to the Congress not later
    than 180 days after the end of the United States fiscal year.
      (2) The President shall develop and implement procedures to carry
    out such audits. Such procedures shall include the matters
    described in sections 1902(c)(2) and 1903(m)(2) of this title.
    (c) Authority of GAO
      The Comptroller General of the United States shall have the
    authority to conduct the audits referred to in sections 1902(c)(1)
    and 1903(m)(1) of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 110, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1798.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in subsec.
    (b) of this section relating to the requirement that the annual
    audit be submitted to Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66,
    as amended, set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money
    and Finance, and the 13th item on page 37 of House Document No. 103-
    7.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1911                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1911. Compensatory adjustments

-STATUTE-
    (a) Additional programs and services
      In addition to the programs and services set forth in Section 221
    of the Compact, and pursuant to Section 224 of the Compact, the
    services and programs of the following U.S. agencies shall be made
    available to the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
    Islands: The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Small Business
    Administration, Economic Development Administration, the Rural
    Electrification Administration, Job Partnership Training Act, Job
    Corps, and the programs and services of the Department of Commerce
    relating to tourism and to marine resource development.
    (b) Investment Development Funds
      (1) In order to further close economic and commercial relations
    between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Marshall Islands, and in order to encourage the presence of
    the United States private sector in such areas, there are hereby
    created two Investment Development Funds, to be established and
    administered by the Federated States of Micronesia and the Marshall
    Islands respectively in consultation with the United States as
    follows:
        (i) For the Investment Development Fund for the Federated
      States of Micronesia there is hereby authorized to be
      appropriated for fiscal 1986, $20 million, backed by the full
      faith and credit of the United States, of which $12 million shall
      be made available for obligation for the first full fiscal year
      after the effective date of the Compact, and of which $8 million
      shall be made available for obligation for the third full fiscal
      year after the effective date of the Compact.
        (ii) For the Investment Development Fund for the Marshall
      Islands there is hereby authorized to be appropriated $10 million
      for fiscal 1986, backed by the full faith and credit of the
      United States, of which $6 million for the first full fiscal year
      after the effective date of the Compact, and of which $4 million
      shall be made available for obligation for the third full fiscal
      year after the effective date of the Compact.

      (2) The amounts specified in this subsection shall be in addition
    to the sums and amounts specified in Articles I and III of Title
    Two of the Compact, and shall be deemed to be included in the sums
    and amounts referred to in section 236 of the Compact.
    (c) Board of Advisors
      To provide policy guidance for the Funds established by
    subsection (b) of this section, the President is hereby authorized
    to establish a Board of Advisors, pursuant to appropriate
    agreements between the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands.
    (d) Further amounts
      The governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Marshall Islands may submit to Congress reports concerning the
    overall financial and economic impacts on such areas resulting from
    the effect of Title IV of this joint resolution upon Title Two of
    the Compact. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for
    fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1990, such amounts as
    may be necessary, but not to exceed $40 million for the Federated
    States of Micronesia and $20 million for the Marshall Islands, as
    provided in appropriation acts, to further compensate the
    governments of such islands (in addition to the compensation
    provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this section) for adverse
    impacts, if any, on the finances and economies of such areas
    resulting from the effect of Title IV of this joint resolution upon
    Title Two of the Compact. At the end of the initial fifteen-year
    term of the Compact, should any portion of the total amount of
    funds authorized in this subsection not have been appropriated,
    such amount not yet appropriated may be appropriated, without
    regard to divisions between amounts authorized in this subsection
    for the Federated States of Micronesia and for the Marshall
    Islands, based on either or both such government's showing of such
    adverse impact, if any, as provided in this subsection.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title I, Sec. 111, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1799.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the Government of the United States and the
    Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239,
    set out as a note under section 1901 of this title.
      The Job Partnership Training Act, referred to in subsec. (a),
    probably means the Job Training Partnership Act, Pub. L. 97-300,
    Oct. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1322, as amended, which was classified
    generally to chapter 19 (Sec. 1501 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor, and
    was repealed by Pub. L. 105-220, title I, Sec. 199(b)(2),
    (c)(2)(B), Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 1059, effective July 1, 2000.
    Pursuant to section 2940(b) of Title 29, references to a provision
    of the Job Training Partnership Act, effective Aug. 7, 1998, are
    deemed to refer to that provision or the corresponding provision of
    the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, Pub. L. 105-220, Aug. 7,
    1998, 112 Stat. 936, and effective July 1, 2000, are deemed to
    refer to the corresponding provision of the Workforce Investment
    Act of 1998. For complete classification of the Job Training
    Partnership Act to the Code, see Tables. For complete
    classification of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 9201 of Title 20,
    Education, and Tables.
      For Oct. 21, 1986, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands, and Nov. 3, 1986, as the
    effective date of the Compact of Free Association with the
    Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsec. (b)(1), see
    Proc. No. 5564, Nov. 3, 1986, 51 F.R. 40399, set out as a note
    under section 1801 of this title.
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsec. (d), is Pub. L. 99-
    239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the
    Compact of Free Association Act of 1985. Title IV of this Act is
    set out as a note under section 1901 of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1912                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part A - Approval and Implementation of Original Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1912. Jurisdiction

-STATUTE-
      (a) With respect to section 321 of the Compact of Free
    Association and its related agreements, the jurisdictional
    provisions set forth in subsection (b) of this section shall apply
    only to the citizens and nationals of the United States and aliens
    lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence who
    are in the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia.
      (b)(1) The defense sites of the United States established in the
    Marshall Islands or the Federated States of Micronesia in
    accordance with the Compact of Free Association and its related
    agreements are within the special maritime and territorial
    jurisdiction of the United States as set forth in section 7, title
    18.
      (2) Any person referred to in subsection (a) of this section who
    within or upon such defense sites is guilty of any act or omission
    which, although not made punishable by any enactment of Congress,
    would be punishable if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction
    of the State of Hawaii by the laws thereof, in force at the time of
    such act or omission, shall be guilty of a like offense and subject
    to a like punishment.
      (3) The United States District Court for the District of Hawaii
    shall have jurisdiction to try all criminal offenses against the
    United States, including the laws of the State of Hawaii made
    applicable to the defense sites in the Marshall Islands or the
    Federated States of Micronesia by virtue of paragraph (2) of this
    subsection, committed by any person referred to in subsection (a)
    of this section.
      (4) The United States District Court for the District of Hawaii
    may appoint one or more magistrate judges for the defense sites in
    the Marshall Islands. Such Magistrate Judges shall have the power
    and the status of Magistrate Judges appointed pursuant to chapter
    43, title 28, provided, however that such Magistrate Judges shall
    have the power to try persons accused of and sentence persons
    convicted of petty offenses, as defined in section 1(3),(!1) title
    18, including violations of regulations for the maintenance of
    peace, order, and health issued by the Commanding Officer on such
    defense sites, without being subject to the restrictions provided
    for in section 3401(b), title 18.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title II, Sec. 202, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1835;
    Pub. L. 101-650, title III, Sec. 321, Dec. 1, 1990, 104 Stat.
    5117.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association, referred to in subsecs. (a) and
    (b)(1), is the Compact of Free Association between the Government
    of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall Islands
    and the Federated States of Micronesia, which is contained in
    section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, set out as a note under section 1901
    of this title.
      Section 1 of title 18, referred to in subsec. (b)(4), was
    repealed by Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 218(a)(1), Oct. 12,
    1984, 98 Stat. 2027.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.
      Section was enacted as part of title II of Pub. L. 99-239, and
    not as part of title I of Pub. L. 99-239 which comprises this part.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Words "magistrate judges" and "Magistrate Judges" substituted for
    "magistrates" and "Magistrates", respectively, wherever appearing
    in subsec. (b)(4) pursuant to section 321 of Pub. L. 101-650, set
    out as a note under section 631 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts,
                     As Amended                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
       PART B - APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPACTS, AS AMENDED   

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921. Approval of U.S.-FSM Compact of Free Association and the
      U.S.-RMI Compact of Free Association; references to subsidiary
      agreements or separate agreements

-STATUTE-
    (a) Federated States of Micronesia
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended with respect to the
    Federated States of Micronesia and signed by the United States and
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and set forth
    in Title II (section 201(a)) of this joint resolution, is hereby
    approved, and Congress hereby consents to the subsidiary agreements
    and amended subsidiary agreements listed in section 462 of the U.S.-
    FSM Compact, including Article X of the Federal Programs and
    Services Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, as amended
    under the Agreement to Amend Article X that was signed by those two
    Governments on June 30, 2004, which shall serve as the authority to
    implement the provisions thereof. Subject to the provisions of this
    joint resolution, the President is authorized to agree, in
    accordance with section 411 of the U.S.-FSM Compact, to an
    effective date for and thereafter to implement such U.S.-FSM
    Compact.
    (b) Republic of the Marshall Islands
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended with respect to the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands and signed by the United States
    and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and set
    forth in Title II (section 201(b)) of this joint resolution, is
    hereby approved, and Congress hereby consents to the subsidiary
    agreements and amended subsidiary agreements listed in section 462
    of the U.S.-RMI Compact, including Article X of the Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement Between the Government of the
    United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, as amended under the Agreement to Amend Article X that was
    signed by those two Governments on June 18, 2004, which shall serve
    as the authority to implement the provisions thereof. Subject to
    the provisions of this joint resolution, the President is
    authorized to agree, in accordance with section 411 of the U.S.-RMI
    Compact, to an effective date for and thereafter to implement such
    U.S.-RMI Compact.
    (c) References to the Compact, the U.S.-FSM Compact, and the U.S.-
      RMI Compact; References to subsidiary agreements or separate
      agreements
      (1) Any reference in this joint resolution (except references in
    Title II) to "the Compact" shall be treated as a reference to the
    Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of Public Law 99-
    239, January 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770. Any reference in this joint
    resolution to the "U.S.-FSM Compact" shall be treated as a
    reference to the Compact of Free Association, as amended between
    the Government of the United States of America and the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia and set forth in Title II
    (section 201(a)) of this joint resolution. Any reference in this
    joint resolution to the "U.S.-RMI Compact" shall be treated as a
    reference to the Compact of Free Association, as amended between
    the Government of the United States of America and the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and set forth in Title II
    (section 201(b)) of this joint resolution.
      (2) Any reference to the term "subsidiary agreements" or
    "separate agreements" in this joint resolution shall be treated as
    a reference to agreements listed in section 462 of the U.S.-FSM
    Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact, and any other agreements that the
    United States may from time to time enter into with either the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia or the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or with both such
    governments in accordance with the provisions of the U.S.-FSM
    Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact.
    (d) Amendment, change, or termination in the U.S.-FSM compact and
      U.S.-RMI compact and certain agreements
      (1) Any amendment, change, or termination by mutual agreement or
    by unilateral action of the Government of the United States of all
    or any part of the U.S.-FSM Compact or U.S.-RMI Compact shall not
    enter into force until after Congress has incorporated it in an Act
    of Congress.
      (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall apply - 
        (A) to all actions of the Government of the United States under
      the U.S.-FSM Compact or U.S.-RMI Compact including, but not
      limited to, actions taken pursuant to sections 431, 441, or 442;
        (B) to any amendment, change, or termination in the Agreement
      Between the Government of the United States and the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding Friendship,
      Cooperation and Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant to Sections
      321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association referred to in
      section 462(a)(2) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the Agreement
      Between the Government of the United States and the Government of
      the Marshall Islands Regarding Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant
      to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association
      referred to in section 462(a)(5) of the U.S.-RMI Compact;
        (C) to any amendment, change, or termination of the agreements
      concluded pursuant to Compact section 177, and section 215(a) of
      the U.S.-FSM Compact and section 216(a) of the U.S.-RMI Compact,
      the terms of which are incorporated by reference into the U.S.-
      FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact; and
        (D) to the following subsidiary agreements, or portions
      thereof:
          (i) Articles III, IV, and X of the agreement referred to in
        section 462(b)(6) of the U.S.-RMI Compact.
          (ii) Article III and IV of the agreement referred to in
        section 462(b)(6) of the U.S.-FSM Compact.
          (iii) Articles VI, XV, and XVII of the agreement referred to
        in section 462(b)(7) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-RMI
        Compact.
    (e) Subsidiary agreements deemed bilateral
      For purposes of implementation of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
    U.S.-RMI Compact and this joint resolution, the Agreement Concluded
    Pursuant to Section 234 of the Compact of Free Association and
    referred to in section 462(a)(1) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and
    section 462(a)(4) of the U.S.-RMI Compact shall be deemed to be a
    bilateral agreement between the United States and each other party
    to such subsidiary agreement. The consent or concurrence of any
    other party shall not be required for the effectiveness of any
    actions taken by the United States in conjunction with either the
    Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands which are intended to affect the implementation,
    modification, suspension, or termination of such subsidiary
    agreement (or any provision thereof) as regards the mutual
    responsibilities of the United States and the party in conjunction
    with whom the actions are taken.
    (f) Entry into force of future amendments to subsidiary agreements
      No agreement between the United States and the government of
    either the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands which would amend, change, or terminate any
    subsidiary agreement or portion thereof, other than those set forth
    in subsection (d) of this section shall enter into force until 90
    days after the President has transmitted such agreement to the
    President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
    Representatives together with an explanation of the agreement and
    the reasons therefor. In the case of the agreement referred to in
    section 462(b)(3) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact,
    such transmittal shall include a specific statement by the
    Secretary of Labor as to the necessity of such amendment, change,
    or termination, and the impact thereof.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 101, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2723;
    Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 801(a), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    869.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended with respect to the
    Federated States of Micronesia and signed by the United States and
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and set forth
    in Title II (section 201(a)) of this joint resolution, referred to
    in subsecs. (a) and (c)(1), is contained in section 201(a) of Pub.
    L. 108-188, set out below.
      This joint resolution, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 108-188,
    Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2720, known as the Compact of Free
    Association Amendments Act of 2003, which enacted this part and
    provisions set out as notes under this section and section 1901 of
    this title and amended provisions set out as a note under section
    3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. Title II of
    this joint resolution enacted provisions set out as notes under
    this section. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under section 1901
    of this title and Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended with respect to the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands and signed by the United States
    and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and set
    forth in Title II (section 201(b)) of this joint resolution,
    referred to in subsecs. (b) and (c)(1), is contained in section
    201(b) of Pub. L. 108-188, set out below.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 801(a)(1), inserted
    before period at end of first sentence ", including Article X of
    the Federal Programs and Services Agreement Between the Government
    of the United States and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, as amended under the Agreement to Amend Article X that
    was signed by those two Governments on June 30, 2004, which shall
    serve as the authority to implement the provisions thereof".
      Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 801(a)(2), inserted before
    period at end of first sentence ", including Article X of the
    Federal Programs and Services Agreement Between the Government of
    the United States and the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, as amended under the Agreement to Amend Article X
    that was signed by those two Governments on June 18, 2004, which
    shall serve as the authority to implement the provisions thereof".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2008 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 801(b), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    870, provided that: "The amendments made by this section [amending
    this section] shall be effective as of the date that is 180 days
    after the date of enactment of this Act [May 8, 2008]."

              CLARIFICATION OF TAX-FREE STATUS OF TRUST FUNDS          
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 809, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    874, provided that: "In the U.S.-RMI Compact [section 201(b) of
    Pub. L. 108-188, set out below], the U.S.-FSM Compact [section
    201(a) of Pub. L. 108-188, set out below], and their respective
    trust fund subsidiary agreements, for the purposes of taxation by
    the United States or its subsidiary jurisdictions, the term 'State'
    means 'State, territory, or the District of Columbia'."

                              RECITAL CLAUSES                          
      Pub. L. 108-188, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2723, which enacted
    this part and provisions set out as notes under this section and
    amended provisions set out as a note under section 3101 of Title 5,
    Government Organization and Employees, contained several "Whereas"
    clauses reading as follows:
      "Whereas the United States (in accordance with the Trusteeship
    Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the
    United Nations Charter, and the objectives of the international
    trusteeship system of the United Nations) fulfilled its obligations
    to promote the development of the people of the Trust Territory
    toward self-government or independence as appropriate to the
    particular circumstances of the Trust Territory and its peoples and
    the freely expressed wishes of the peoples concerned;
      "Whereas the United States, the Federated States of Micronesia,
    and the Republic of the Marshall Islands entered into the Compact
    of Free Association set forth in title II of Public Law 99-239,
    January 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770 [set out as a note under section
    1901 of this title], to create and maintain a close and mutually
    beneficial relationship;
      "Whereas the United States, in accordance with section 231 of the
    Compact of Free Association entered into negotiations with the
    Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands to provide continued United States
    assistance and to reaffirm its commitment to this close and
    beneficial relationship; and
      "Whereas these negotiations, in accordance with section 431 of
    the Compact, resulted in the 'Compact of Free Association, as
    amended between the Government of the United States of America and
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia' [set out
    below], and the 'Compact of Free Association, as amended between
    the Government of the United States of America and the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands' [set out below], which,
    together with their related agreements, were signed by the
    Government of the United States and the Governments of the
    Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands on May 14, and April 30, 2003, respectively".

    COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION, AS AMENDED, BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF
     THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE FEDERATED
                           STATES OF MICRONESIA
      Pub. L. 108-188, title II, Sec. 201(a), Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2757, as amended by Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1),
    May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 871, provided that: "The Compact of Free
    Association, as amended, between the Government of the United
    States of America and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia is as follows:

                                 "PREAMBLE                             

    "THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT
                   OF THE FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
      "Affirming that their Governments and their relationship as
    Governments are founded upon respect for human rights and
    fundamental freedoms for all, and that the people of the Federated
    States of Micronesia have the right to enjoy self-government; and
      "Affirming the common interests of the United States of America
    and the Federated States of Micronesia in creating and maintaining
    their close and mutually beneficial relationship through the free
    and voluntary association of their respective Governments; and
      "Affirming the interest of the Government of the United States in
    promoting the economic advancement and budgetary self-reliance of
    the Federated States of Micronesia; and
      "Recognizing that their relationship until the entry into force
    on November 3, 1986 of the Compact was based upon the International
    Trusteeship System of the United Nations Charter, and in particular
    Article 76 of the Charter; and that pursuant to Article 76 of the
    Charter, the people of the Federated States of Micronesia have
    progressively developed their institutions of self-government, and
    that in the exercise of their sovereign right to self-determination
    they, through their freely-expressed wishes, have adopted a
    Constitution appropriate to their particular circumstances; and
      "Recognizing that the Compact reflected their common desire to
    terminate the Trusteeship and establish a government-to-government
    relationship which was in accordance with the new political status
    based on the freely expressed wishes of the people of the Federated
    States of Micronesia and appropriate to their particular
    circumstances; and
      "Recognizing that the people of the Federated States of
    Micronesia have and retain their sovereignty and their sovereign
    right to self-determination and the inherent right to adopt and
    amend their own Constitution and form of government and that the
    approval of the entry of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia into the Compact by the people of the Federated States
    of Micronesia constituted an exercise of their sovereign right to
    self-determination; and
      "Recognizing the common desire of the people of the United States
    and the people of the Federated States of Micronesia to maintain
    their close government-to-government relationship, the United
    States and the Federated States of Micronesia:
      "NOW, THEREFORE, MUTUALLY AGREE to continue and strengthen their
    relationship of free association by amending the Compact, which
    continues to provide a full measure of self-government for the
    people of the Federated States of Micronesia; and
      "FURTHER AGREE that the relationship of free association derives
    from and is as set forth in this Compact, as amended, by the
    Governments of the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia; and that, during such relationship of free association,
    the respective rights and responsibilities of the Government of the
    United States and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia in regard to this relationship of free association
    derive from and are as set forth in this Compact, as amended.

                                "TITLE ONE                            

                          "GOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS                      

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "SELF-GOVERNMENT                         

      "Section 111
      "The people of the Federated States of Micronesia, acting through
    the Government established under their Constitution, are self-
    governing.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                             "FOREIGN AFFAIRS                         

      "Section 121
      "(a) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia has the
    capacity to conduct foreign affairs and shall do so in its own name
    and right, except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as
    amended.
      "(b) The foreign affairs capacity of the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia includes:
        "(1) the conduct of foreign affairs relating to law of the sea
      and marine resources matters, including the harvesting,
      conservation, exploration or exploitation of living and non-
      living resources from the sea, seabed or subsoil to the full
      extent recognized under international law;
        "(2) the conduct of its commercial, diplomatic, consular,
      economic, trade, banking, postal, civil aviation, communications,
      and cultural relations, including negotiations for the receipt of
      developmental loans and grants and the conclusion of arrangements
      with other governments and international and intergovernmental
      organizations, including any matters specially benefiting its
      individual citizens.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes that the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia has the capacity
    to enter into, in its own name and right, treaties and other
    international agreements with governments and regional and
    international organizations.
      "(d) In the conduct of its foreign affairs, the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia confirms that it shall act in
    accordance with principles of international law and shall settle
    its international disputes by peaceful means.

      "Section 122
      "The Government of the United States shall support applications
    by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia for
    membership or other participation in regional or international
    organizations as may be mutually agreed.

      "Section 123
      "(a) In recognition of the authority and responsibility of the
    Government of the United States under Title Three, the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia shall consult, in the conduct
    of its foreign affairs, with the Government of the United States.
      "(b) In recognition of the foreign affairs capacity of the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of
    the United States, in the conduct of its foreign affairs, shall
    consult with the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    on matters that the Government of the United States regards as
    relating to or affecting the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia.

      "Section 124
      "The Government of the United States may assist or act on behalf
    of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia in the area
    of foreign affairs as may be requested and mutually agreed from
    time to time. The Government of the United States shall not be
    responsible to third parties for the actions of the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia undertaken with the assistance
    or through the agency of the Government of the United States
    pursuant to this section unless expressly agreed.

      "Section 125
      "The Government of the United States shall not be responsible for
    nor obligated by any actions taken by the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia in the area of foreign affairs,
    except as may from time to time be expressly agreed.

      "Section 126
      "At the request of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and subject to the consent of the receiving state, the
    Government of the United States shall extend consular assistance on
    the same basis as for citizens of the United States to citizens of
    the Federated States of Micronesia for travel outside the Federated
    States of Micronesia, the United States and its territories and
    possessions.

      "Section 127
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, or its
    related agreements, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and
    benefits of the Government of the United States as Administering
    Authority which resulted from the application pursuant to the
    Trusteeship Agreement of any treaty or other international
    agreement to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on November
    2, 1986, are, as of that date, no longer assumed and enjoyed by the
    Government of the United States.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                              "COMMUNICATIONS                          

      "Section 131
      "(a) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia has
    full authority and responsibility to regulate its domestic and
    foreign communications, and the Government of the United States
    shall provide communications assistance as mutually agreed.
      "(b) On May 24, 1993, the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia elected to undertake all functions previously performed
    by the Government of the United States with respect to domestic and
    foreign communications, except for those functions set forth in a
    separate agreement entered into pursuant to this section of the
    Compact, as amended.

      "Section 132
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    permit the Government of the United States to operate
    telecommunications services in the Federated States of Micronesia
    to the extent necessary to fulfill the obligations of the
    Government of the United States under this Compact, as amended, in
    accordance with the terms of separate agreements entered into
    pursuant to this section of the Compact, as amended.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "IMMIGRATION                           

      "Section 141
      "(a) In furtherance of the special and unique relationship that
    exists between the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia, under the Compact, as amended, any person in the
    following categories may be admitted to, lawfully engage in
    occupations, and establish residence as a nonimmigrant in the
    United States and its territories and possessions (the 'United
    States') without regard to paragraph (5) or (7)(B)(i)(II) of
    section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended,
    8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(5) or (7)(B)(i)(II):
        "(1) a person who, on November 2, 1986, was a citizen of the
      Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, as defined in Title 53 of
      the Trust Territory Code in force on January 1, 1979, and has
      become and remains a citizen of the Federated States of
      Micronesia;
        "(2) a person who acquires the citizenship of the Federated
      States of Micronesia at birth, on or after the effective date of
      the Constitution of the Federated States of Micronesia;
        "(3) an immediate relative of a person referred to in
      paragraphs (1) or (2) of this section, provided that such
      immediate relative is a naturalized citizen of the Federated
      States of Micronesia who has been an actual resident there for
      not less than five years after attaining such naturalization and
      who holds a certificate of actual residence, and further
      provided, that, in the case of a spouse, such spouse has been
      married to the person referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) of this
      section for at least five years, and further provided, that the
      Government of the United States is satisfied that such
      naturalized citizen meets the requirement of subsection (b) of
      section 104 of Public Law 99-239 as it was in effect on the day
      prior to the effective date of this Compact, as amended;
        "(4) a naturalized citizen of the Federated States of
      Micronesia who was an actual resident there for not less than
      five years after attaining such naturalization and who satisfied
      these requirements as of April 30, 2003, who continues to be an
      actual resident and holds a certificate of actual residence, and
      whose name is included in a list furnished by the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia to the Government of the
      United States no later than the effective date of the Compact, as
      amended, in form and content acceptable to the Government of the
      United States, provided, that the Government of the United States
      is satisfied that such naturalized citizen meets the requirement
      of subsection (b) of section 104 of Public Law 99-239 as it was
      in effect on the day prior to the effective date of this Compact,
      as amended; or
        "(5) an immediate relative of a citizen of the Federated States
      of Micronesia, regardless of the immediate relative's country of
      citizenship or period of residence in the Federated States of
      Micronesia, if the citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia
      is serving on active duty in any branch of the United States
      Armed Forces, or in the active reserves.
      "(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a person who
    is coming to the United States pursuant to an adoption outside the
    United States, or for the purpose of adoption in the United States,
    is ineligible for admission under the Compact and the Compact, as
    amended. This subsection shall apply to any person who is or was an
    applicant for admission to the United States on or after March 1,
    2003, including any applicant for admission in removal proceedings
    (including appellate proceedings) on or after March 1, 2003,
    regardless of the date such proceedings were commenced. This
    subsection shall have no effect on the ability of the Government of
    the United States or any United States State or local government to
    commence or otherwise take any action against any person or entity
    who has violated any law relating to the adoption of any person.
      "(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, no person
    who has been or is granted citizenship in the Federated States of
    Micronesia, or has been or is issued a Federated States of
    Micronesia passport pursuant to any investment, passport sale, or
    similar program has been or shall be eligible for admission to the
    United States under the Compact or the Compact, as amended.
      "(d) A person admitted to the United States under the Compact, or
    the Compact, as amended, shall be considered to have the permission
    of the Government of the United States to accept employment in the
    United States. An unexpired Federated States of Micronesia passport
    with unexpired documentation issued by the Government of the United
    States evidencing admission under the Compact or the Compact, as
    amended, shall be considered to be documentation establishing
    identity and employment authorization under section 274A(b)(1)(B)
    of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C.
    1324a(b)(1)(B). The Government of the United States will take
    reasonable and appropriate steps to implement and publicize this
    provision, and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    will also take reasonable and appropriate steps to publicize this
    provision.
      "(e) For purposes of the Compact and the Compact, as amended:
        "(1) the term 'residence' with respect to a person means the
      person's principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without regard
      to intent, as provided in section 101(a)(33) of the Immigration
      and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(33), and
      variations of the term 'residence,' including 'resident' and
      'reside,' shall be similarly construed;
        "(2) the term 'actual residence' means physical presence in the
      Federated States of Micronesia during eighty-five percent of the
      five-year period of residency required by section 141(a)(3) and
      (4);
        "(3) the term 'certificate of actual residence' means a
      certificate issued to a naturalized citizen by the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia stating that the citizen has
      complied with the actual residence requirement of section
      141(a)(3) or (4);
        "(4) the term 'nonimmigrant' means an alien who is not an
      'immigrant' as defined in section 101(a)(15) of such Act, 8
      U.S.C. 1101(a)(15); and
        "(5) the term 'immediate relative' means a spouse, or unmarried
      son or unmarried daughter less than 21 years of age.
      "(f) The Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, shall apply
    to any person admitted or seeking admission to the United States
    (other than a United States possession or territory where such Act
    does not apply) under the Compact or the Compact, as amended, and
    nothing in the Compact or the Compact, as amended, shall be
    construed to limit, preclude, or modify the applicability of, with
    respect to such person:
        "(1) any ground of inadmissibility or deportability under such
      Act (except sections 212(a)(5) and 212(a)(7)(B)(i)(II) of such
      Act, as provided in subsection (a) of this section), and any
      defense thereto, provided that, section 237(a)(5) of such Act
      shall be construed and applied as if it reads as follows: 'any
      alien who has been admitted under the Compact, or the Compact, as
      amended, who cannot show that he or she has sufficient means of
      support in the United States, is deportable';
        "(2) the authority of the Government of the United States under
      section 214(a)(1) of such Act to provide that admission as a
      nonimmigrant shall be for such time and under such conditions as
      the Government of the United States may by regulations prescribe;
        "(3) except for the treatment of certain documentation for
      purposes of section 274A(b)(1)(B) of such Act as provided by
      subsection (d) of this section of the Compact, as amended, any
      requirement under section 274A, including but not limited to
      section 274A(b)(1)(E);
        "(4) section 643 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and
      Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, Public Law 104-208, and
      actions taken pursuant to section 643; and
        "(5) the authority of the Government of the United States
      otherwise to administer and enforce the Immigration and
      Nationality Act, as amended, or other United States law.
      "(g) Any authority possessed by the Government of the United
    States under this section of the Compact or the Compact, as
    amended, may also be exercised by the Government of a territory or
    possession of the United States where the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, as amended, does not apply, to the extent such
    exercise of authority is lawful under a statute or regulation of
    such territory or possession that is authorized by the laws of the
    United States.
      "(h) Subsection (a) of this section does not confer on a citizen
    of the Federated States of Micronesia the right to establish the
    residence necessary for naturalization under the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, as amended, or to petition for benefits for alien
    relatives under that Act. Subsection (a) of this section, however,
    shall not prevent a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia
    from otherwise acquiring such rights or lawful permanent resident
    alien status in the United States.

      "Section 142
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States may be
    admitted, to lawfully engage in occupations, and reside in the
    Federated States of Micronesia, subject to the rights of the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to deny entry to
    or deport any such citizen or national as an undesirable alien. Any
    determination of inadmissibility or deportability shall be based on
    reasonable statutory grounds and shall be subject to appropriate
    administrative and judicial review within the Federated States of
    Micronesia. If a citizen or national of the United States is a
    spouse of a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall allow the
    United States citizen spouse to establish residence. Should the
    Federated States of Micronesia citizen spouse predecease the United
    States citizen spouse during the marriage, the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall allow the United States
    citizen spouse to continue to reside in the Federated States of
    Micronesia.
      "(b) In enacting any laws or imposing any requirements with
    respect to citizens and nationals of the United States entering the
    Federated States of Micronesia under subsection (a) of this
    section, including any grounds of inadmissibility or deportability,
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall accord
    to such citizens and nationals of the United States treatment no
    less favorable than that accorded to citizens of other countries.
      "(c) Consistent with subsection (a) of this section, with respect
    to citizens and nationals of the United States seeking to engage in
    employment or invest in the Federated States of Micronesia, the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall adopt
    immigration-related procedures no less favorable than those adopted
    by the Government of the United States with respect to citizens of
    the Federated States of Micronesia seeking employment in the United
    States.

      "Section 143
      "Any person who relinquishes, or otherwise loses, his United
    States nationality or citizenship, or his Federated States of
    Micronesia citizenship, shall be ineligible to receive the
    privileges set forth in sections 141 and 142. Any such person may
    apply for admission to the United States or the Federated States of
    Micronesia, as the case may be, in accordance with any other
    applicable laws of the United States or the Federated States of
    Micronesia relating to immigration of aliens from other countries.
    The laws of the Federated States of Micronesia or the United
    States, as the case may be, shall dictate the terms and conditions
    of any such person's stay.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "REPRESENTATION                          

      "Section 151
      "Relations between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall be conducted
    in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
    In addition to diplomatic missions and representation, the
    Governments may establish and maintain other offices and designate
    other representatives on terms and in locations as may be mutually
    agreed.

      "Section 152
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States who, without
    authority of the United States, acts as the agent of the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia with regard to matters
    specified in the provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration Act
    of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), that apply with
    respect to an agent of a foreign principal shall be subject to the
    requirements of such Act. Failure to comply with such requirements
    shall subject such citizen or national to the same penalties and
    provisions of law as apply in the case of the failure of such an
    agent of a foreign principal to comply with such requirements. For
    purposes of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall be considered to be a foreign
    country.
      "(b) Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to a citizen
    or national of the United States employed by the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia with respect to whom the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia from time to time certifies
    to the Government of the United States that such citizen or
    national is an employee of the Federated States of Micronesia whose
    principal duties are other than those matters specified in the
    Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended, that apply
    with respect to an agent of a foreign principal. The agency or
    officer of the United States receiving such certifications shall
    cause them to be filed with the Attorney General, who shall
    maintain a publicly available list of the persons so certified.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                         "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                     

      "Section 161
      "The Governments of the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia declare that it is their policy to promote efforts to
    prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and to
    enrich understanding of the natural resources of the Federated
    States of Micronesia. In order to carry out this policy, the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia agree to the following mutual and reciprocal
    undertakings.
      "(a) The Government of the United States:
        "(1) shall continue to apply the environmental controls in
      effect on November 2, 1986 to those of its continuing activities
      subject to section 161(a)(2), unless and until those controls are
      modified under sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4);
        "(2) shall apply the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,
      83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., to its activities under the
      Compact, as amended, and its related agreements as if the
      Federated States of Micronesia were the United States;
        "(3) shall comply also, in the conduct of any activity
      requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement
      under section 161(a)(2), with standards substantively similar to
      those required by the following laws of the United States, taking
      into account the particular environment of the Federated States
      of Micronesia: the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 87
      Stat. 884, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, as amended,
      77 Stat. 392, 42 U.S.C. Supp. 7401 et seq.; the Clean Water Act
      (Federal Water Pollution Control Act), as amended, 86 Stat. 896,
      33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; Title I of the Marine Protection,
      Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (the Ocean Dumping Act), 33
      U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, as
      amended, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as
      amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.; and such other environmental
      protection laws of the United States and of the Federated States
      of Micronesia, as may be mutually agreed from time to time with
      the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia; and
        "(4) shall develop, prior to conducting any activity requiring
      the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under
      section 161(a)(2), written standards and procedures, as agreed
      with the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, to
      implement the substantive provisions of the laws made applicable
      to U.S. Government activities in the Federated States of
      Micronesia, pursuant to section 161(a)(3).
      "(b) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    continue to develop and implement standards and procedures to
    protect its environment. As a reciprocal obligation to the
    undertakings of the Government of the United States under this
    Article, the Federated States of Micronesia, taking into account
    its particular environment, shall continue to develop and implement
    standards for environmental protection substantively similar to
    those required of the Government of the United States by section
    161(a)(3) prior to its conducting activities in the Federated
    States of Micronesia, substantively equivalent to activities
    conducted there by the Government of the United States and, as a
    further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those standards.
      "(c) Section 161(a), including any standard or procedure
    applicable thereunder, and section 161(b) may be modified or
    superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of
    the United States and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia.
      "(d) In the event that an Environmental Impact Statement is no
    longer required under the laws of the United States for major
    Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human
    environment, the regulatory regime established under sections
    161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) shall continue to apply to such activities
    of the Government of the United States until amended by mutual
    agreement.
      "(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the
    activities of the Government of the United States under this
    Compact, as amended, and its related agreements from any
    environmental standard or procedure which may be applicable under
    sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) if the President determines it to
    be in the paramount interest of the Government of the United States
    to do so, consistent with Title Three of this Compact, as amended,
    and the obligations of the Government of the United States under
    international law. Prior to any decision pursuant to this
    subsection, the views of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall be sought and considered to the extent
    practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the
    extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such
    exemption shall be given promptly to the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(f) The laws of the United States referred to in section
    161(a)(3) shall apply to the activities of the Government of the
    United States under this Compact, as amended, and its related
    agreements only to the extent provided for in this section.

      "Section 162
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia may bring
    an action for judicial review of any administrative agency action
    or any activity of the Government of the United States pursuant to
    section 161(a) for enforcement of the obligations of the Government
    of the United States arising thereunder. The United States District
    Court for the District of Hawaii and the United States District
    Court for the District of Columbia shall have jurisdiction over
    such action or activity, and over actions brought under section
    172(b) which relate to the activities of the Government of the
    United States and its officers and employees, governed by section
    161, provided that:
        "(a) Such actions may only be civil actions for any appropriate
      civil relief other than punitive damages against the Government
      of the United States or, where required by law, its officers in
      their official capacity; no criminal actions may arise under this
      section.
        "(b) Actions brought pursuant to this section may be initiated
      only by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.
        "(c) Administrative agency actions arising under section 161
      shall be reviewed pursuant to the standard of judicial review set
      forth in 5 U.S.C. 706.
        "(d) The United States District Court for the District of
      Hawaii and the United States District Court for the District of
      Columbia shall have jurisdiction to issue all necessary
      processes, and the Government of the United States agrees to
      submit itself to the jurisdiction of the court; decisions of the
      United States District Court shall be reviewable in the United
      States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit or the United
      States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
      respectively, or in the United States Supreme Court as provided
      by the laws of the United States.
        "(e) The judicial remedy provided for in this section shall be
      the exclusive remedy for the judicial review or enforcement of
      the obligations of the Government of the United States under this
      Article and actions brought under section 172(b) which relate to
      the activities of the Government of the United States and its
      officers and employees governed by section 161.
        "(f) In actions pursuant to this section, the Government of the
      Federated States of Micronesia shall be treated as if it were a
      United States citizen.

      "Section 163
      "(a) For the purpose of gathering data necessary to study the
    environmental effects of activities of the Government of the United
    States subject to the requirements of this Article, the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia shall be granted access to
    facilities operated by the Government of the United States in the
    Federated States of Micronesia, to the extent necessary for this
    purpose, except to the extent such access would unreasonably
    interfere with the exercise of the authority and responsibility of
    the Government of the United States under Title Three.
      "(b) The Government of the United States, in turn, shall be
    granted access to the Federated States of Micronesia for the
    purpose of gathering data necessary to discharge its obligations
    under this Article, except to the extent such access would
    unreasonably interfere with the exercise of the authority and
    responsibility of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia under Title One, and to the extent necessary for this
    purpose shall be granted access to documents and other information
    to the same extent similar access is provided the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia under the Freedom of Information
    Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
      "(c) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    not impede efforts by the Government of the United States to comply
    with applicable standards and procedures.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                         "GENERAL LEGAL PROVISIONS                     

      "Section 171
      "Except as provided in this Compact, as amended, or its related
    agreements, the application of the laws of the United States to the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands by virtue of the Trusteeship
    Agreement ceased with respect to the Federated States of Micronesia
    on November 3, 1986, the date the Compact went into effect.

      "Section 172
      "(a) Every citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia who is
    not a resident of the United States shall enjoy the rights and
    remedies under the laws of the United States enjoyed by any non-
    resident alien.
      "(b) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and
    every citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia shall be
    considered to be a 'person' within the meaning of the Freedom of
    Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and of the judicial review
    provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706,
    except that only the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia may seek judicial review under the Administrative
    Procedure Act or judicial enforcement under the Freedom of
    Information Act when such judicial review or enforcement relates to
    the activities of the Government of the United States governed by
    sections 161 and 162.

      "Section 173
      "The Governments of the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia agree to adopt and enforce such measures, consistent
    with this Compact, as amended, and its related agreements, as may
    be necessary to protect the personnel, property, installations,
    services, programs and official archives and documents maintained
    by the Government of the United States in the Federated States of
    Micronesia pursuant to this Compact, as amended, and its related
    agreements and by the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia in the United States pursuant to this Compact, as
    amended, and its related agreements.

      "Section 174
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, and
    its related agreements:
        "(a) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, and
      its agencies and officials, shall be immune from the jurisdiction
      of the court of the United States, and the Government of the
      United States, and its agencies and officials, shall be immune
      from the jurisdiction of the court of the Federated States of
      Micronesia.
        "(b) The Government of the United States accepts responsibility
      for and shall pay:
          "(1) any unpaid money judgment rendered by the High Court of
        the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands against the
        Government of the United States with regard to any cause of
        action arising as a result of acts or omissions of the
        Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the
        Government of the United States prior to November 3, 1986;
          "(2) any claim settled by the claimant and the Government of
        the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands but not paid as of
        November 3, 1986; and
          "(3) settlement of any administrative claim or of any action
        before a court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or
        the Government of the United States, arising as a result of
        acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of
        the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States.
        "(c) Any claim not referred to in section 174(b) and arising
      from an act or omission of the Government of the Trust Territory
      of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States
      prior to the effective date of the Compact shall be adjudicated
      in the same manner as a claim adjudicated according to section
      174(d). In any claim against the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Government of the United
      States shall stand in the place of the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands. A judgment on any claim
      referred to in section 174(b) or this subsection, not otherwise
      satisfied by the Government of the United States, may be
      presented for certification to the United States Court of Appeals
      for the Federal Circuit, or its successor courts, which shall
      have jurisdiction therefore, notwithstanding the provisions of 28
      U.S.C. 1502, and which court's decisions shall be reviewable as
      provided by the laws of the United States. The United States
      Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall certify such
      judgment, and order payment thereof, unless it finds, after a
      hearing, that such judgment is manifestly erroneous as to law or
      fact, or manifestly excessive. In either of such cases the United
      States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall have
      jurisdiction to modify such judgment.
        "(d) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
      not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United
      States, and the Government of the United States shall not be
      immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Federated
      States of Micronesia in any civil case in which an exception to
      foreign state immunity is set forth in the Foreign Sovereign
      Immunities Act (28 U.S.C. 1602 et seq.) or its successor
      statutes. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
      806(b)(1)(A), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 871.]

      "Section 175
      "(a) A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended, and shall have the
    force of law, shall govern mutual assistance and cooperation in law
    enforcement matters, including the pursuit, capture, imprisonment
    and extradition of fugitives from justice and the transfer of
    prisoners, as well as other law enforcement matters. In the United
    States, the laws of the United States governing international
    extradition, including 18 U.S.C. 3184, 3186 and 3188-95, shall be
    applicable to the extradition of fugitives under the separate
    agreement, and the laws of the United States governing the transfer
    of prisoners, including 18 U.S.C. 4100-15, shall be applicable to
    the transfer of prisoners under the separate agreement; and
      "(b) A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended, and shall have the
    force of law, shall govern requirements relating to labor
    recruitment practices, including registration, reporting,
    suspension or revocation of authorization to recruit persons for
    employment in the United States, and enforcement for violations of
    such requirements.

      "Section 176
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia confirms
    that final judgments in civil cases rendered by any court of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall continue in full force
    and effect, subject to the constitutional power of the courts of
    the Federated States of Micronesia to grant relief from judgments
    in appropriate cases.

      "Section 177
      "Section 177 of the Compact entered into force with respect to
    the Federated States of Micronesia on November 3, 1986 as follows:
        " '(a) The Government of the United States accepts the
      responsibility for compensation owing to citizens of the Marshall
      Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia (or Palau) for
      loss or damage to property and person of the citizens of the
      Marshall Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia,
      resulting from the nuclear testing program which the Government
      of the United States conducted in the Northern Marshall Islands
      between June 30, 1946, and August 18, 1958.
        " '(b) The Government of the United States and the Government
      of the Marshall Islands shall set forth in a separate agreement
      provisions for the just and adequate settlement of all such
      claims which have arisen in regard to the Marshall Islands and
      its citizens and which have not as yet been compensated or which
      in the future may arise, for the continued administration by the
      Government of the United States of direct radiation related
      medical surveillance and treatment programs and radiological
      monitoring activities and for such additional programs and
      activities as may be mutually agreed, and for the assumption by
      the Government of the Marshall Islands of responsibility for
      enforcement of limitations on the utilization of affected areas
      developed in cooperation with the Government of the United States
      and for the assistance by the Government of the United States in
      the exercise of such responsibility as may be mutually agreed.
      This separate agreement shall come into effect simultaneously
      with this Compact and shall remain in effect in accordance with
      its own terms.
        " '(c) The Government of the United States shall provide to the
      Government of the Marshall Islands, on a grant basis, the amount
      of $150 million to be paid and distributed in accordance with the
      separate agreement referred to in this Section, and shall provide
      the services and programs set forth in this separate agreement,
      the language of which is incorporated into this Compact.'.
      "The Compact, as amended, makes no changes to, and has no effect
    upon, Section 177 of the Compact, nor does the Compact, as amended,
    change or affect the separate agreement referred to in Section 177
    of the Compact including Articles IX and X of that separate
    agreement, and measures taken by the parties thereunder. [As
    amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(B), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 178
      "(a) The Federal agencies of the Government of the United States
    that provide the services and related programs in the Federated
    States of Micronesia pursuant to Title Two are authorized to settle
    and pay tort claims arising in the Federated States of Micronesia
    from the activities of such agencies or from the acts or omissions
    of the employees of such agencies. Except as provided in section
    178(b), the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 31 U.S.C. 1304 shall
    apply exclusively to such administrative settlements and payments.
      "(b) Claims under section 178(a) that cannot be settled under
    section 178(a) shall be disposed of exclusively in accordance with
    Article II of Title Four. Arbitration awards rendered pursuant to
    this subsection shall be paid out of funds under 31 U.S.C. 1304.
      "(c) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia shall, in the separate agreement
    referred to in section 231, provide for:
        "(1) the administrative settlement of claims referred to in
      section 178(a), including designation of local agents in each
      State of the Federated States of Micronesia; such agents to be
      empowered to accept, investigate and settle such claims, in a
      timely manner, as provided in such separate agreements; and
        "(2) arbitration, referred to in section 178(b), in a timely
      manner, at a site convenient to the claimant, in the event a
      claim is not otherwise settled pursuant to section 178(a).
      "(d) The provisions of section 174(d) shall not apply to claims
    covered by this section.
      "(e) Except as otherwise explicitly provided by law of the United
    States, neither the Government of the United States, its
    instrumentalities, nor any person acting on behalf of the
    Government of the United States, shall be named a party in any
    action based on, or arising out of, the activity or activities of a
    recipient of any grant or other assistance provided by the
    Government of the United States (or the activity or activities of
    the recipient's agency or any other person or entity acting on
    behalf of the recipient).

      "Section 179
      "(a) The courts of the Federated States of Micronesia shall not
    exercise criminal jurisdiction over the Government of the United
    States, or its instrumentalities.
      "(b) The courts of the Federated States of Micronesia shall not
    exercise criminal jurisdiction over any person if the Government of
    the United States provides notification to the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia that such person was acting on
    behalf of the Government of the United States, for actions taken in
    furtherance of section 221 or 224 of this Compact, as amended,,
    [sic] or any other provision of law authorizing financial, program,
    or service assistance to the Federated States of Micronesia. [As
    amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(C), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

                                "TITLE TWO                            

                            "ECONOMIC RELATIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "GRANT ASSISTANCE                         

      "Section 211 - Sector Grants
      "(a) In order to assist the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia in its efforts to promote the economic advancement,
    budgetary self-reliance, and economic self-sufficiency of its
    people, and in recognition of the special relationship that exists
    between the Federated States of Micronesia and the United States,
    the Government of the United States shall provide assistance on a
    sector grant basis for a period of twenty years in the amounts set
    forth in section 216, commencing on the effective date of this
    Compact, as amended. Such grants shall be used for assistance in
    the sectors of education, health care, private sector development,
    the environment, public sector capacity building, and public
    infrastructure, or for other sectors as mutually agreed, with
    priorities in the education and health care sectors. For each year
    such sector grant assistance is made available, the proposed
    division of this amount among these sectors shall be certified to
    the Government of the United States by the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia and shall be subject to the
    concurrence of the Government of the United States. In such case,
    the Government of the United States shall disburse the agreed upon
    amounts and monitor the use of such sector grants in accordance
    with the provisions of this Article and the Agreement Concerning
    Procedures for the Implementation of United States Economic
    Assistance Provided in the Compact of Free Association, as
    amended[,] Between the Government of the United States of America
    and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia ('Fiscal
    Procedures Agreement') which shall come into effect simultaneously
    with this Compact, as amended. The provision of any United States
    assistance under the Compact, as amended, the Fiscal Procedures
    Agreement, the Agreement Between the Government of the United
    States of America and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the Compact,
    as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund (Trust Fund Agreement), or any
    other subsidiary agreement to the Compact, as amended, shall
    constitute 'a particular distribution . . . required by the terms
    or special nature of the assistance' for purposes of Article XII,
    section 1(b) of the Constitution of the Federated States of
    Micronesia.
        "(1) Education. - United States grant assistance shall be made
      available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c)
      of this section to support and improve the educational system of
      the Federated States of Micronesia and develop the human,
      financial, and material resources necessary for the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia to perform these services.
      Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic education
      system.
        "(2) Health. - United States grant assistance shall be made
      available in accordance with the plan described in subsection (c)
      of this section to support and improve the delivery of
      preventive, curative and environmental care and develop the
      human, financial, and material resources necessary for the
      Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to perform these
      services.
        "(3) Private sector development. - United States grant
      assistance shall be made available in accordance with the plan
      described in subsection (c) of this section to support the
      efforts of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      to attract foreign investment and increase indigenous business
      activity by vitalizing the commercial environment, ensuring fair
      and equitable application of the law, promoting adherence to core
      labor standards, and maintaining progress toward privatization of
      state-owned and partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging
      in other reforms.
        "(4) Capacity building in the public sector. - United States
      grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the
      plan described in subsection (c) of this section to support the
      efforts of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      to build effective, accountable and transparent national, state,
      and local government and other public sector institutions and
      systems.
        "(5) Environment. - United States grant assistance shall be
      made available in accordance with the plan described in
      subsection (c) of this section to increase environmental
      protection; conserve and achieve sustainable use of natural
      resources; and engage in environmental infrastructure planning,
      design construction and operation.
        "(6) Public infrastructure. - 
          "(i) U.S. annual grant assistance shall be made available in
        accordance with a list of specific projects included in the
        plan described in subsection (c) of this section to assist the
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia in its efforts
        to provide adequate public infrastructure.
          "(ii) Infrastructure and maintenance Fund. - Five percent of
        the annual public infrastructure grant made available under
        paragraph (i) of this subsection shall be set aside, with an
        equal contribution from the Government of the Federated States
        of Micronesia, as a contribution to an Infrastructure
        Maintenance Fund (IMF). Administration of the Infrastructure
        Maintenance Fund shall be governed by the Fiscal Procedures
        Agreement.
      "(b) Humanitarian Assistance. - Federated States of Micronesia
    Program. In recognition of the special development needs of the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the United States
    shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia, on its
    request and to be deducted from the grant amount made available
    under subsection (a) of this section, a Humanitarian Assistance -
    Federated States of Micronesia ('HAFSM') Program with emphasis on
    health, education, and infrastructure (including transportation),
    projects. The terms and conditions of the HAFSM shall be set forth
    in the Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of
    the Government of the United States in the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Sections
    211(b), 321, and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as
    amended, which shall come into effect simultaneously with the
    amendments to this Compact.
      "(c) Development Plan. - The Government of the Federated States
    of Micronesia shall prepare and maintain an official overall
    development plan. The plan shall be strategic in nature, shall be
    continuously reviewed and updated through the annual budget
    process, and shall make projections on a multi-year rolling basis.
    Each of the sectors named in subsection (a) of this section, or
    other sectors as mutually agreed, shall be accorded specific
    treatment in the plan. Insofar as grants funds are involved, the
    plan shall be subject to the concurrence of the Government of the
    United States.
      "(d) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. - An amount of two
    hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall be provided annually,
    with an equal contribution from the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia, as a contribution to a 'Disaster Assistance
    Emergency Fund (DAEF).' Any funds from the DAEF may be used only
    for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from disasters and
    emergencies. The funds will be accessed upon declaration by the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, with the
    concurrence of the United States Chief of Mission to the Federated
    States of Micronesia. The Administration of the DAEF shall be
    governed by the Fiscal Procedures Agreement and the Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231. [As
    amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(D), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 212 - Accountability
      "(a) Regulations and policies normally applicable to United
    States financial assistance to its state and local governments, as
    reflected in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, shall apply to each
    sector grant described in section 211, and to grants administered
    under section 221 below, except as modified in the separate
    agreements referred to in section 231 of this Compact, as amended,
    or by United States law. The Government of the United States, after
    annual consultations with the Federated States of Micronesia, may
    attach reasonable terms and conditions, including annual
    performance indicators that are necessary to ensure effective use
    of United States assistance and reasonable progress toward
    achieving program objectives. The Government of the United States
    may seek appropriate remedies for noncompliance with the terms and
    conditions attached to the assistance, or for failure to comply
    with section 234, including withholding assistance.
      "(b) The Government of the United States shall, for each fiscal
    year of the twenty years during which assistance is to be provided
    on a sector grant basis under section 211, grant the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia an amount equal to the lesser of
    (i) one half of the reasonable, properly documented cost incurred
    during each fiscal year to conduct the annual audit required under
    Article VIII (2) of the Fiscal Procedures Agreement or (ii)
    $500,000. Such amount will not be adjusted for inflation under
    section 217 or otherwise.

      "Section 213 - Joint Economic Management Committee
      "The Governments of the United States and the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall establish a Joint Economic Management Committee,
    composed of a U.S. chair, two other members from the Government of
    the United States and two members from the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia. The Joint Economic Management
    Committee shall meet at least once each year to review the audits
    and reports required under this Title, evaluate the progress made
    by the Federated States of Micronesia in meeting the objectives
    identified in its plan described in subsection (c) of section 211,
    with particular focus on those parts of the plan dealing with the
    sectors identified in subsection (a) of section 211, identify
    problems encountered, and recommend ways to increase the
    effectiveness of U.S. assistance made available under this Title.
    The establishment and operations of the Joint Economic Management
    Committee shall be governed by the Fiscal Procedures Agreement.

      "Section 214 - Annual Report
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    report annually to the President of the United States on the use of
    United States sector grant assistance and other assistance and
    progress in meeting mutually agreed program and economic goals. The
    Joint Economic Management Committee shall review and comment on the
    report and make appropriate recommendations based thereon.

      "Section 215 - Trust Fund
      "(a) The United States shall contribute annually for twenty years
    from the effective date of this Compact, as amended, in the amounts
    set forth in section 216 into a Trust Fund established in
    accordance with the Agreement Between the Government of the United
    States of America and the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the Compact,
    as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund ('Trust Fund Agreement'). Upon
    termination of the annual financial assistance under section 211,
    the proceeds of the fund shall thereafter be used for the purposes
    described in section 211 or as otherwise mutually agreed.
      "(b) The United States contribution into the Trust Fund described
    in subsection (a) of this section is conditioned on the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia contributing to the Trust
    Fund at least $30 million, prior to September 30, 2004. Any funds
    received by the Federated States of Micronesia under section 111(d)
    of Public Law 99-239 (January 14, 1986), or successor provisions,
    would be contributed to the Trust Fund as a Federated States of
    Micronesia contribution.
      "(c) The terms regarding the investment and management of funds
    and use of the income of the Trust Fund shall be set forth in the
    separate Trust Fund Agreement described in subsection (a) of this
    section. Funds derived from United States investment shall not be
    subject to Federal or state taxes in the United States or the
    Federated States of Micronesia. The Trust Fund Agreement shall also
    provide for annual reports to the Government of the United States
    and to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia. The
    Trust Fund Agreement shall provide for appropriate distributions of
    trust fund proceeds to the Federated States of Micronesia and for
    appropriate remedies for the failure of the Federated States of
    Micronesia to use income of the Trust Fund for the annual grant
    purposes set forth in section 211. These remedies may include the
    return to the United States of the present market value of its
    contributions to the Trust Fund and the present market value of any
    undistributed income on the contributions of the United States. If
    this Compact, as amended, is terminated, the provisions of sections
    451 through 453 of this Compact, as amended, shall govern treatment
    of any U.S. contributions to the Trust Fund or accrued interest
    thereon. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
    806(b)(1)(E), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 216 - Sector Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
      "The funds described in sections 211, 212(b) and 215 shall be
    made available as follows:



                         [IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS]                     
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
         Fiscal year        Annual     Audit Grant   Trust Fund     Total 
                            Grants       Section     Section 215          
                            Section      212(b)                           
                              211      (amount up                         
                                           to)                            
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
    2004                        76.2            .5            16      92.7
    2005                        76.2            .5            16      92.7
    2006                        76.2            .5            16      92.7
    2007                        75.4            .5          16.8      92.7
    2008                        74.6            .5          17.6      92.7
    2009                        73.8            .5          18.4      92.7
    2010                          73            .5          19.2      92.7
    2011                        72.2            .5            20      92.7
    2012                        71.4            .5          20.8      92.7
    2013                        70.6            .5          21.6      92.7
    2014                        69.8            .5          22.4      92.7
    2015                          69            .5          23.2      92.7
    2016                        68.2            .5            24      92.7
    2017                        67.4            .5          24.8      92.7
    2018                        66.6            .5          25.6      92.7
    2019                        65.8            .5          26.4      92.7
    2020                          65            .5          27.2      92.7
    2021                        64.2            .5            28      92.7
    2022                        63.4            .5          28.8      92.7
    2023                        62.6            .5          29.6      92.7
    --------------------------------------------------------------------


      "Section 217 - Inflation Adjustment
      "Except for the amounts provided for audits under section 212(b),
    the amounts stated in this Title shall be adjusted for each United
    States Fiscal Year by the percent that equals two-thirds of the
    percent change in the United States Gross Domestic Product Implicit
    Price Deflator, or 5 percent, whichever is less in any one year,
    using the beginning of Fiscal Year 2004 as a base.

      "Section 218 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
      "If in any year the funds made available by the Government of the
    United States for that year pursuant to this Article are not
    completely obligated by the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, the unobligated balances shall remain available in
    addition to the funds to be provided in subsequent years.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                     "SERVICES AND PROGRAM ASSISTANCE                 

      "Section 221
      "(a) Services. - The Government of the United States shall make
    available to the Federated States of Micronesia, in accordance with
    and to the extent provided in the Federal Programs and Services
    Agreement referred to in section 231, the services and related
    programs of:
        "(1) the United States Weather Service;
        "(2) the United States Postal Service;
        "(3) the United States Federal Aviation Administration;
        "(4) the United States Department of Transportation;
        "(5) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (for the benefit
      only of the Bank of the Federated States of Micronesia); and
        "(6) the Department of Homeland Security (Federal Emergency
      Management Agency), and the United States Agency for
      International Development, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance.
    Upon the effective date of this Compact, as amended, the United
    States Departments and Agencies named or having responsibility to
    provide these services and related programs shall have the
    authority to implement the relevant provisions of the Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231.
      "(b) Programs. - 
        "(1) With the exception of the services and programs covered by
      subsection (a) of this section, and unless the Congress of the
      United States provides otherwise, the Government of the United
      States shall make available to the Federated States of Micronesia
      the services and programs that were available to the Federated
      States of Micronesia on the effective date of this Compact, as
      amended, to the extent that such services and programs continue
      to be available to State and local governments of the United
      States. As set forth in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, funds
      provided under subsection (a) of section 211 will be considered
      to be local revenues of the Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia when used as the local share required to obtain
      Federal programs and services.
        "(2) Unless provided otherwise by U.S. law, the services and
      programs described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be
      extended in accordance with the terms of the Federal Programs and
      Services Agreement referred to in section 231.
      "(c) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise
    such authority as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities
    under this Title and the separate agreement referred to in amended
    section 231, including the authority to monitor and administer all
    service and program assistance provided by the United States to the
    Federated States of Micronesia. The Federal Programs and Services
    Agreement referred to in amended section 231 shall also set forth
    the extent to which services and programs shall be provided to the
    Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(d) Except as provided elsewhere in this Compact, as amended,
    under any separate agreement entered into under this Compact, as
    amended, or otherwise under U.S. law, all Federal domestic programs
    extended to or operating in the Federated States of Micronesia
    shall be subject to all applicable criteria, standards, reporting
    requirements, auditing procedures, and other rules and regulations
    applicable to such programs and services when operating in the
    United States.
      "(e) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    the Federated States of Micronesia alternate energy development
    projects, studies, and conservation measures to the extent provided
    for the Freely Associated States in the laws of the United States.
    [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(F), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 222
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia may agree from time to time to
    extend to the Federated States of Micronesia additional United
    States grant assistance, services and programs, as provided under
    the laws of the United States. Unless inconsistent with such laws,
    or otherwise specifically precluded by the Government of the United
    States at the time such additional grant assistance, services, or
    programs are extended, the Federal Programs and Services Agreement
    referred to in section 231 shall apply to any such assistance,
    services or programs. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
    806(b)(1)(G), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 223
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall make
    available to the Government of the United States at no cost such
    land as may be necessary for the operations of the services and
    programs provided pursuant to this Article, and such facilities as
    are provided by the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia at no cost to the Government of the United States as of
    the effective date of this Compact, as amended, or as may be
    mutually agreed thereafter.

      "Section 224
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia may
    request, from time to time, technical assistance from the Federal
    agencies and institutions of the Government of the United States,
    which are authorized to grant such technical assistance in
    accordance with its laws. If technical assistance is granted
    pursuant to such a request, the Government of the United States
    shall provide the technical assistance in a manner which gives
    priority consideration to the Federated States of Micronesia over
    other recipients not a part of the United States, its territories
    or possessions, and equivalent consideration to the Federated
    States of Micronesia with respect to other states in Free
    Association with the United States. Such assistance shall be made
    available on a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis to the extent
    provided by United States law.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                        "ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS                    

      "Section 231
      "The specific nature, extent and contractual arrangements of the
    services and programs provided for in section 221 of this Compact,
    as amended, as well as the legal status of agencies of the
    Government of the United States, their civilian employees and
    contractors, and the dependents of such personnel while present in
    the Federated States of Micronesia, and other arrangements in
    connection with the assistance, services, or programs furnished by
    the Government of the United States, are set forth in a Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended.

      "Section 232
      "The Government of the United States, in consultation with the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, shall determine
    and implement procedures for the periodic audit of all grants and
    other assistance made under Article I of this Title and of all
    funds expended for the services and programs provided under Article
    II of this Title. Further, in accordance with the Fiscal Procedures
    Agreement described in subsection (a) of section 211, the
    Comptroller General of the United States shall have such powers and
    authorities as described in section 102(b) of Public Law 108-188,
    117 Stat. 2726, December 17, 2003. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229,
    title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(H), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 233
      "Approval of this Compact, as amended, by the Government of the
    United States, in accordance with its constitutional processes,
    shall constitute a pledge by the United States that the sums and
    amounts specified as sector grants in section 211 of this Compact,
    as amended, shall be appropriated and paid to the Federated States
    of Micronesia for such period as those provisions of this Compact,
    as amended, remain in force, subject to the terms and conditions of
    this Title and related subsidiary agreements.

      "Section 234
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia pledges to
    cooperate with, permit, and assist if reasonably requested,
    designated and authorized representatives of the Government of the
    United States charged with investigating whether Compact funds, or
    any other assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended,
    have, or are being, used for purposes other than those set forth in
    this Compact, as amended, or its subsidiary agreements. In carrying
    out this investigative authority, such United States Government
    representatives may request that the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia subpoena documents and records and compel
    testimony in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the
    Federated States of Micronesia. Such assistance by the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia to the Government of the
    United States shall not be unreasonably withheld. The obligation of
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to fulfill its
    pledge herein is a condition to its receiving payment of such funds
    or other assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended. The
    Government of the United States shall pay any reasonable costs for
    extraordinary services executed by the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia in carrying out the provisions of this
    section.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                                  "TRADE                              

      "Section 241
      "The Federated States of Micronesia is not included in the
    customs territory of the United States.

      "Section 242
      "The President shall proclaim the following tariff treatment for
    articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia which
    shall apply during the period of effectiveness of this title:
        "(a) Unless otherwise excluded, articles imported from the
      Federated States of Micronesia, subject to the limitations
      imposed under section 503(b) of title V of the Trade Act of 1974
      (19 U.S.C. 2463(b)), shall be exempt from duty.
        "(b) Only tuna in airtight containers provided for in heading
      1604.14.22 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
      that is imported from the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands during any calendar year not to
      exceed 10 percent of apparent United States consumption of tuna
      in airtight containers during the immediately preceding calendar
      year, as reported by the National Marine Fisheries Service, shall
      be exempt from duty; but the quantity of tuna given duty-free
      treatment under this paragraph for any calendar year shall be
      counted against the aggregated quantity of tuna in airtight
      containers that is dutiable under rate column numbered 1 of such
      heading 1604.14.22 for that calendar year.
        "(c) The duty-free treatment provided under subsection (a)
      shall not apply to - 
          "(1) watches, clocks, and timing apparatus provided for in
        Chapter 91, excluding heading 9113, of the Harmonized Tariff
        Schedule of the United States;
          "(2) buttons (whether finished or not finished) provided for
        in items 9606.21.40 and 9606.29.20 of such Schedule;
          "(3) textile and apparel articles which are subject to
        textile agreements; and
          "(4) footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves,
        and leather wearing apparel which were not eligible articles
        for purposes of title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
        2461, et seq.) on April 1, 1984.
        "(d) If the cost or value of materials produced in the customs
      territory of the United States is included with respect to an
      eligible article which is a product of the Federated States of
      Micronesia, an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the appraised
      value of the article at the time it is entered that is
      attributable to such United States cost or value may be applied
      for duty assessment purposes toward determining the percentage
      referred to in section 503(a)(2) of title V of the Trade Act of
      1974.

      "Section 243
      "Articles imported from the Federated States of Micronesia which
    are not exempt from duty under subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d)
    of section 242 shall be subject to the rates of duty set forth in
    column numbered 1-general of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
    United States (HTSUS).

      "Section 244
      "(a) All products of the United States imported into the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall receive treatment no less
    favorable than that accorded like products of any foreign country
    with respect to customs duties or charges of a similar nature and
    with respect to laws and regulations relating to importation,
    exportation, taxation, sale, distribution, storage or use.
      "(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to
    advantages accorded by the Federated States of Micronesia by virtue
    of their full membership in the Pacific Island Countries Trade
    Agreement (PICTA), done on August 18, 2001, to those governments
    listed in Article 26 of PICTA, as of the date the Compact, as
    amended, is signed.
      "(c) Prior to entering into consultations on, or concluding, a
    free trade agreement with governments not listed in Article 26 of
    PICTA, the Federated States of Micronesia shall consult with the
    United States regarding whether or how subsection (a) of section
    244 shall be applied.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                           "FINANCE AND TAXATION                       

      "Section 251
      "The currency of the United States is the official circulating
    legal tender of the Federated States of Micronesia. Should the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia act to institute
    another currency, the terms of an appropriate currency transitional
    period shall be as agreed with the Government of the United States.

      "Section 252
      "The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia may, with
    respect to United States persons, tax income derived from sources
    within its respective jurisdiction, property situated therein,
    including transfers of such property by gift or at death, and
    products consumed therein, in such manner as the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia deems appropriate. The determination
    of the source of any income, or the situs of any property, shall
    for purposes of this Compact, as amended, be made according to the
    United States Internal Revenue Code. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229,
    title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(I), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 872.]

      "Section 253
      "A citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia, domiciled
    therein, shall be exempt from estate, gift, and generation-skipping
    transfer taxes imposed by the Government of the United States,
    provided that such citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia is
    neither a citizen nor a resident of the United States.

      "Section 254
      "(a) In determining any income tax imposed by the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia shall have authority to impose tax upon income
    derived by a resident of the Federated States of Micronesia from
    sources without the Federated States of Micronesia, in the same
    manner and to the same extent as the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia imposes tax upon income derived from within
    its own jurisdiction. If the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia exercises such authority as provided in this subsection,
    any individual resident of the Federated States of Micronesia who
    is subject to tax by the Government of the United States on income
    which is also taxed by the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall be relieved of liability to the Government of the
    United States for the tax which, but for this subsection, would
    otherwise be imposed by the Government of the United States on such
    income. However, the relief from liability to the United States
    Government referred to in the preceding sentence means only relief
    in the form of the foreign tax credit (or deduction in lieu
    thereof) available with respect to the income taxes of a possession
    of the United States, and relief in the form of the exclusion under
    section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. For purposes of
    this section, the term 'resident of the Federated States of
    Micronesia' shall be deemed to include any person who was
    physically present in the Federated States of Micronesia for a
    period of 183 or more days during any taxable year.
      "(b) If the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    subjects income to taxation substantially similar to that imposed
    by the Trust Territory Code in effect on January 1, 1980, such
    Government shall be deemed to have exercised the authority
    described in section 254(a).

      "Section 255
      "For purposes of section 274(h)(3)(A) of the United States
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the term 'North American Area' shall
    include the Federated States of Micronesia.

                               "TITLE THREE                           

                      "SECURITY AND DEFENSE RELATIONS                  

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY                   

      "Section 311
      "(a) The Government of the United States has full authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "(b) This authority and responsibility includes:
        "(1) the obligation to defend the Federated States of
      Micronesia and its people from attack or threats thereof as the
      United States and its citizens are defended;
        "(2) the option to foreclose access to or use of the Federated
      States of Micronesia by military personnel or for the military
      purposes of any third country; and
        "(3) the option to establish and use military areas and
      facilities in the Federated States of Micronesia, subject to the
      terms of the separate agreements referred to in sections 321 and
      323.
      "(c) The Government of the United States confirms that it shall
    act in accordance with the principles of international law and the
    Charter of the United Nations in the exercise of this authority and
    responsibility.

      "Section 312
      "Subject to the terms of any agreements negotiated in accordance
    with sections 321 and 323, the Government of the United States may
    conduct within the lands, waters and airspace of the Federated
    States of Micronesia the activities and operations necessary for
    the exercise of its authority and responsibility under this Title.

      "Section 313
      "(a) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    refrain from actions that the Government of the United States
    determines, after appropriate consultation with that Government, to
    be incompatible with its authority and responsibility for security
    and defense matters in or relating to the Federated States of
    Micronesia.
      "(b) The consultations referred to in this section shall be
    conducted expeditiously at senior levels of the two Governments,
    and the subsequent determination by the Government of the United
    States referred to in this section shall be made only at senior
    interagency levels of the Government of the United States.
      "(c) The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall
    be afforded, on an expeditious basis, an opportunity to raise its
    concerns with the United States Secretary of State personally and
    the United States Secretary of Defense personally regarding any
    determination made in accordance with this section.

      "Section 314
      "(a) Unless otherwise agreed, the Government of the United States
    shall not, in the Federated States of Micronesia:
        "(1) test by detonation or dispose of any nuclear weapon, nor
      test, dispose of, or discharge any toxic chemical or biological
      weapon; or
        "(2) test, dispose of, or discharge any other radioactive,
      toxic chemical or biological materials in an amount or manner
      which would be hazardous to public health or safety.
      "(b) Unless otherwise agreed, other than for transit or
    overflight purposes or during time of a national emergency declared
    by the President of the United States, a state of war declared by
    the Congress of the United States or as necessary to defend against
    an actual or impending armed attack on the United States, the
    Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, the Government of the United States shall not store in the
    Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands any toxic chemical weapon, nor any radioactive materials
    nor any toxic chemical materials intended for weapons use.
      "(c) Radioactive, toxic chemical, or biological materials not
    intended for weapons use shall not be affected by section 314(b).
      "(d) No material or substance referred to in this section shall
    be stored in the Federated States of Micronesia except in an amount
    and manner which would not be hazardous to public health or safety.
    In determining what shall be an amount or manner which would be
    hazardous to public health or safety under this section, the
    Government of the United States shall comply with any applicable
    mutual agreement, international guidelines accepted by the
    Government of the United States, and the laws of the United States
    and their implementing regulations.
      "(e) Any exercise of the exemption authority set forth in section
    161(e) shall have no effect on the obligations of the Government of
    the United States under this section or on the application of this
    subsection.
      "(f) The provisions of this section shall apply in the areas in
    which the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    exercises jurisdiction over the living resources of the seabed,
    subsoil or water column adjacent to its coasts.

      "Section 315
      "The Government of the United States may invite members of the
    armed forces of other countries to use military areas and
    facilities in the Federated States of Micronesia, in conjunction
    with and under the control of United States Armed Forces. Use by
    units of the armed forces of other countries of such military areas
    and facilities, other than for transit and overflight purposes,
    shall be subject to consultation with and, in the case of major
    units, approval of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia.

      "Section 316
      "The authority and responsibility of the Government of the United
    States under this Title may not be transferred or otherwise
    assigned.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                 "DEFENSE FACILITIES AND OPERATING RIGHTS             

      "Section 321
      "(a) Specific arrangements for the establishment and use by the
    Government of the United States of military areas and facilities in
    the Federated States of Micronesia are set forth in separate
    agreements, which shall remain in effect in accordance with the
    terms of such agreements.
      "(b) If, in the exercise of its authority and responsibility
    under this Title, the Government of the United States requires the
    use of areas within the Federated States of Micronesia in addition
    to those for which specific arrangements are concluded pursuant to
    section 321(a), it may request the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia to satisfy those requirements through leases
    or other arrangements. The Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall sympathetically consider any such request and
    shall establish suitable procedures to discuss it with and provide
    a prompt response to the Government of the United States.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes and respects
    the scarcity and special importance of land in the Federated States
    of Micronesia. In making any requests pursuant to section 321(b),
    the Government of the United States shall follow the policy of
    requesting the minimum area necessary to accomplish the required
    security and defense purpose, of requesting only the minimum
    interest in real property necessary to support such purpose, and of
    requesting first to satisfy its requirement through public real
    property, where available, rather than through private real
    property.

      "Section 322
      "The Government of the United States shall provide and maintain
    fixed and floating aids to navigation in the Federated States of
    Micronesia at least to the extent necessary for the exercise of its
    authority and responsibility under this Title.

      "Section 323
      "The military operating rights of the Government of the United
    States and the legal status and contractual arrangements of the
    United States Armed Forces, their members, and associated
    civilians, while present in the Federated States of Micronesia are
    set forth in separate agreements, which shall remain in effect in
    accordance with the terms of such agreements.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

          "DEFENSE TREATIES AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AGREEMENTS      

      "Section 331
      "Subject to the terms of this Compact, as amended, and its
    related agreements, the Government of the United States,
    exclusively, has assumed and enjoys, as to the Federated States of
    Micronesia, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and benefits
    of:
      "(a) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    applied by the Government of the United States as Administering
    Authority of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as of
    November 2, 1986.
      "(b) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    to which the Government of the United States is or may become a
    party which it determines to be applicable in the Federated States
    of Micronesia. Such a determination by the Government of the United
    States shall be preceded by appropriate consultation with the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

               "SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES           

      "Section 341
      "Any person entitled to the privileges set forth in section 141
    (with the exception of any person described in section 141(a)(5)
    who is not a citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia) shall
    be eligible to volunteer for service in the Armed Forces of the
    United States, but shall not be subject to involuntary induction
    into military service of the United States as long as such person
    has resided in the United States for a period of less than one
    year, provided that no time shall count towards this one year while
    a person admitted to the United States under the Compact, or the
    Compact, as amended, is engaged in full-time study in the United
    States. Any person described in section 141(a)(5) who is not a
    citizen of the Federated States of Micronesia shall be subject to
    United States laws relating to selective service. [As amended Pub.
    L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(J), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    872.]

      "Section 342
      "The Government of the United States shall have enrolled, at any
    one time, at least one qualified student from the Federated States
    of Micronesia, as may be nominated by the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia, in each of:
      "(a) The United States Coast Guard Academy pursuant to section
    195 of title 14, United States Code.
      "(b) The United States Merchant Marine Academy pursuant to
    section 1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 ([former] 46
    U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6)) [see 46 U.S.C. 51304], provided that the
    provisions of section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act [now 46 U.S.C.
    51304(b)(2)] shall not apply to the enrollment of students pursuant
    to section 342(b) of this Compact, as amended. [As amended Pub. L.
    110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(K), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    872.]

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

      "Section 351
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia shall continue to maintain a
    Joint Committee empowered to consider disputes arising under the
    implementation of this Title and its related agreements.
      "(b) The membership of the Joint Committee shall comprise
    selected senior officials of the two Governments. The senior United
    States military commander in the Pacific area shall be the senior
    United States member of the Joint Committee. For the meetings of
    the Joint Committee, each of the two Governments may designate
    additional or alternate representatives as appropriate for the
    subject matter under consideration.
      "(c) Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the Joint Committee shall
    meet annually at a time and place to be designated, after
    appropriate consultation, by the Government of the United States.
    The Joint Committee also shall meet promptly upon request of either
    of its members. The Joint Committee shall follow such procedures,
    including the establishment of functional subcommittees, as the
    members may from time to time agree. Upon notification by the
    Government of the United States, the Joint Committee of the United
    States and the Federated States of Micronesia shall meet promptly
    in a combined session with the Joint Committee established and
    maintained by the Government of the United States and the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands to consider matters within the jurisdiction
    of the two Joint Committees.
      "(d) Unresolved issues in the Joint Committee shall be referred
    to the Governments for resolution, and the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall be afforded, on an expeditious
    basis, an opportunity to raise its concerns with the United States
    Secretary of Defense personally regarding any unresolved issue
    which threatens its continued association with the Government of
    the United States.

      "Section 352
      "In the exercise of its authority and responsibility under Title
    Three, the Government of the United States shall accord due respect
    to the authority and responsibility of the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia under Titles One, Two and Four and
    to the responsibility of the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia to assure the well-being of its people.

      "Section 353
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall not include the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia as a named party
    to a formal declaration of war, without that Government's consent.
      "(b) Absent such consent, this Compact, as amended, is without
    prejudice, on the ground of belligerence or the existence of a
    state of war, to any claims for damages which are advanced by the
    citizens, nationals or Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, which arise out of armed conflict subsequent to
    November 3, 1986, and which are:
        "(1) petitions to the Government of the United States for
      redress; or
        "(2) claims in any manner against the government, citizens,
      nationals or entities of any third country.
      "(c) Petitions under section 353(b)(1) shall be treated as if
    they were made by citizens of the United States.

      "Section 354
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia are jointly committed to
    continue their security and defense relations, as set forth in this
    Title. Accordingly, it is the intention of the two countries that
    the provisions of this Title shall remain binding as long as this
    Compact, as amended, remains in effect, and thereafter as mutually
    agreed, unless earlier terminated by mutual agreement pursuant to
    section 441, or amended pursuant to Article III of Title Four. If
    at any time the Government of the United States, or the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia, acting unilaterally,
    terminates this Title, such unilateral termination shall be
    considered to be termination of the entire Compact, in which case
    the provisions of sections 442 and 452 (in the case of termination
    by the Government of the United States) or sections 443 and 453 (in
    the case of termination by the Government of the Federated States
    of Micronesia), with the exception of paragraph (3) of subsection
    (a) of section 452 or paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of section
    453, as the case may be, shall apply.
      "(b) The Government of the United States recognizes, in view of
    the special relationship between the Government of the United
    States and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia,
    and in view of the existence of the separate agreement regarding
    mutual security concluded with the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia pursuant to sections 321 and 323, that, even
    if this Title should terminate, any attack on the Federated States
    of Micronesia during the period in which such separate agreement is
    in effect, would constitute a threat to the peace and security of
    the entire region and a danger to the United States. In the event
    of such an attack, the Government of the United States would take
    action to meet the danger to the United States and to the Federated
    States of Micronesia in accordance with its constitutional
    processes.
      "(c) As reflected in Article 21(1)(b) of the Trust Fund
    Agreement, the Government of the United States and the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia further recognize, in view of
    the special relationship between their countries, that even if this
    Title should terminate, the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia shall refrain from actions which the Government of the
    United States determines, after appropriate consultation with that
    Government, to be incompatible with its authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
    806(b)(1)(L), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

                                "TITLE FOUR                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE                   

      "Section 411
      "Pursuant to section 432 of the Compact and subject to subsection
    (e) of section 461 of the Compact, as amended, the Compact, as
    amended, shall come into effect upon mutual agreement between the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia subsequent to completion of the following:
        "(a) Approval by the Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia in accordance with its constitutional processes.
        "(b) Approval by the Government of the United States in
      accordance with its constitutional processes.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                    "CONFERENCE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION                

      "Section 421
      "The Government of the United States shall confer promptly at the
    request of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and
    that Government shall confer promptly at the request of the
    Government of the United States on matters relating to the
    provisions of this Compact, as amended, or of its related
    agreements.

      "Section 422
      "In the event the Government of the United States or the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, after conferring
    pursuant to section 421, determines that there is a dispute and
    gives written notice thereof, the two Governments shall make a good
    faith effort to resolve the dispute between themselves.

      "Section 423
      "If a dispute between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia cannot be resolved
    within 90 days of written notification in the manner provided in
    section 422, either party to the dispute may refer it to
    arbitration in accordance with section 424.

      "Section 424
      "Should a dispute be referred to arbitration as provided for in
    section 423, an Arbitration Board shall be established for the
    purpose of hearing the dispute and rendering a decision which shall
    be binding upon the two parties to the dispute unless the two
    parties mutually agree that the decision shall be advisory.
    Arbitration shall occur according to the following terms:
        "(a) An Arbitration Board shall consist of a Chairman and two
      other members, each of whom shall be a citizen of a party to the
      dispute. Each of the two Governments which is a party to the
      dispute shall appoint one member to the Arbitration Board. If
      either party to the dispute does not fulfill the appointment
      requirements of this section within 30 days of referral of the
      dispute to arbitration pursuant to section 423, its member on the
      Arbitration Board shall be selected from its own standing list by
      the other party to the dispute. Each Government shall maintain a
      standing list of 10 candidates. The parties to the dispute shall
      jointly appoint a Chairman within 15 days after selection of the
      other members of the Arbitration Board. Failing agreement on a
      Chairman, the Chairman shall be chosen by lot from the standing
      lists of the parties to the dispute within 5 days after such
      failure.
        "(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, or
      its related agreements, the Arbitration Board shall have
      jurisdiction to hear and render its final determination on all
      disputes arising exclusively under Articles I, II, III, IV and V
      of Title One, Title Two, Title Four, and their related
      agreements.
        "(c) Each member of the Arbitration Board shall have one vote.
      Each decision of the Arbitration Board shall be reached by
      majority vote.
        "(d) In determining any legal issue, the Arbitration Board may
      have reference to international law and, in such reference, shall
      apply as guidelines the provisions set forth in Article 38 of the
      Statute of the International Court of Justice.
        "(e) The Arbitration Board shall adopt such rules for its
      proceedings as it may deem appropriate and necessary, but such
      rules shall not contravene the provisions of this Compact, as
      amended. Unless the parties provide otherwise by mutual
      agreement, the Arbitration Board shall endeavor to render its
      decision within 30 days after the conclusion of arguments. The
      Arbitration Board shall make findings of fact and conclusions of
      law and its members may issue dissenting or individual opinions.
      Except as may be otherwise decided by the Arbitration Board, one-
      half of all costs of the arbitration shall be borne by the
      Government of the United States and the remainder shall be borne
      by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                                "AMENDMENT                            

      "Section 431
      "The provisions of this Compact, as amended, may be further
    amended by mutual agreement of the Government of the United States
    and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, in
    accordance with their respective constitutional processes.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "TERMINATION                           

      "Section 441
      "This Compact, as amended, may be terminated by mutual agreement
    of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Government of the United States, in accordance with their
    respective constitutional processes. Such mutual termination of
    this Compact, as amended, shall be without prejudice to the
    continued application of section 451 of this Compact, as amended,
    and the provisions of the Compact, as amended, set forth therein.

      "Section 442
      "Subject to section 452, this Compact, as amended, may be
    terminated by the Government of the United States in accordance
    with its constitutional processes. Such termination shall be
    effective on the date specified in the notice of termination by the
    Government of the United States but not earlier than six months
    following delivery of such notice. The time specified in the notice
    of termination may be extended. Such termination of this Compact,
    as amended, shall be without prejudice to the continued application
    of section 452 of this Compact, as amended, and the provisions of
    the Compact, as amended, set forth therein.

      "Section 443
      "This Compact, as amended, shall be terminated by the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia, pursuant to its
    constitutional processes, subject to section 453 if the people
    represented by that Government vote in a plebiscite to terminate
    the Compact, as amended, or by another process permitted by the FSM
    constitution and mutually agreed between the Governments of the
    United States and the Federated States of Micronesia. The
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia shall notify the
    Government of the United States of its intention to call such a
    plebiscite, or to pursue another mutually agreed and constitutional
    process, which plebiscite or process shall take place not earlier
    than three months after delivery of such notice. The plebiscite or
    other process shall be administered by the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia in accordance with its
    constitutional and legislative processes. If a majority of the
    valid ballots cast in the plebiscite or other process favors
    termination, the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
    shall, upon certification of the results of the plebiscite or other
    process, give notice of termination to the Government of the United
    States, such termination to be effective on the date specified in
    such notice but not earlier than three months following the date of
    delivery of such notice. The time specified in the notice of
    termination may be extended.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "SURVIVABILITY                          

      "Section 451
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 441, economic
    and other assistance by the Government of the United States shall
    continue only if and as mutually agreed by the Governments of the
    United States and the Federated States of Micronesia, and in
    accordance with the parties' respective constitutional processes.
      "(b) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Federated States of Micronesia, as reflected in subsections (b)
    and (c) of section 354 of this Compact, as amended, and the
    separate agreement entered into consistent with those subsections,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 441 prior to the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the United States shall continue to make contributions to
    the Trust Fund described in section 215 of this Compact, as
    amended.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Federated States of Micronesia described in subsection (b) of
    this section, if termination occurs pursuant to section 441
    following the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this
    Compact, as amended, the Federated States of Micronesia shall be
    entitled to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 215 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement governing the
    distribution of such proceeds.

      "Section 452
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 442 prior to
    the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the following provisions of this Compact, as amended,
    shall remain in full force and effect until the twentieth
    anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as amended, and
    thereafter as mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Sections 232 and 234 of Title Two;
        "(3) Title Three; and
        "(4) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) Should termination occur pursuant to section 442 before the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of the Compact, as
    amended:
        "(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection and
      subsection (c) of this section, economic and other assistance by
      the United States shall continue only if and as mutually agreed
      by the Governments of the United States and the Federated States
      of Micronesia.
        "(2) In view of the special relationship of the United States
      and the Federated States of Micronesia, as reflected in
      subsections (b) and (c) of section 354 of this Compact, as
      amended, and the separate agreement regarding mutual security,
      and the Trust Fund Agreement, the United States shall continue to
      make contributions to the Trust Fund described in section 215 of
      this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in the Trust
      Fund Agreement.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Federated States of Micronesia, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 442 following the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the Federated States of Micronesia shall continue to be
    eligible to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 215 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement.

      "Section 453
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 443 prior to
    the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the following provisions of this Compact, as amended,
    shall remain in full force and effect until the twentieth
    anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as amended, and
    thereafter as mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Sections 232 and 234 of Title Two;
        "(3) Title Three; and
        "(4) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) Upon receipt of notice of termination pursuant to section
    443, the Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia shall promptly consult with regard
    to their future relationship. Except as provided in subsection (c)
    and (d) of this section, these consultations shall determine the
    level of economic and other assistance, if any, which the
    Government of the United States shall provide to the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia for the period ending on the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, and for any period thereafter, if mutually agreed.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Federated States of Micronesia, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 443 prior to the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the United States shall continue to make contributions to
    the Trust Fund described in section 215 of this Compact, as
    amended, in the manner described in the Trust Fund Agreement.
      "(d) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Federated States of Micronesia, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 443 following the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the Federated States of Micronesia shall continue to be
    eligible to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 215 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement.

      "Section 454
      "Notwithstanding any other provision of this Compact, as amended:
        "(a) The Government of the United States reaffirms its
      continuing interest in promoting the economic advancement and
      budgetary self-reliance of the people of the Federated States of
      Micronesia.
        "(b) The separate agreements referred to in Article II of Title
      Three shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                           "DEFINITION OF TERMS                       

      "Section 461
      "For the purpose of this Compact, as amended, only, and without
    prejudice to the views of the Government of the United States or
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia as to the
    nature and extent of the jurisdiction of either of them under
    international law, the following terms shall have the following
    meanings:
        "(a) 'Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' means the area
      established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the former
      administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, the Marshall
      Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust Territory Code,
      section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term does not
      include the area of Palau or the Northern Mariana Islands.
        "(b) 'Trusteeship Agreement' means the agreement setting forth
      the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations
      April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered
      into force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8
      U.N.T.S. 189.
        "(c) 'The Federated States of Micronesia' and 'the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands' are used in a geographic sense and include
      the land and water areas to the outer limits of the territorial
      sea and the air space above such areas as now or hereafter
      recognized by the Government of the United States.
        "(d) 'Compact' means the Compact of Free Association Between
      the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Marshall Islands, that was approved by the United States Congress
      in section 201 of Public Law 99-239 (Jan. 14, 1986) and went into
      effect with respect to the Federated States of Micronesia on
      November 3, 1986.
        "(e) 'Compact, as amended' means the Compact of Free
      Association Between the United States and the Federated States of
      Micronesia, as amended. The effective date of the Compact, as
      amended, shall be on a date to be determined by the President of
      the United States, and agreed to by the Government of the
      Federated States of Micronesia, following formal approval of the
      Compact, as amended, in accordance with section 411 of this
      Compact, as amended.
        "(f) 'Government of the Federated States of Micronesia' means
      the Government established and organized by the Constitution of
      the Federated States of Micronesia including all the political
      subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
        "(g) 'Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands' means
      the Government established and organized by the Constitution of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands including all the political
      subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
        "(h) The following terms shall be defined consistent with the
      1998 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International
      Telecommunication Union as follows:
          "(1) 'Radiocommunication' means telecommunication by means of
        radio waves.
          "(2) 'Station' means one or more transmitters or receivers or
        a combination of transmitters and receivers, including the
        accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on
        a radiocommunication service, or the radio astronomy service.
          "(3) 'Broadcasting Service' means a radiocommunication
        service in which the transmissions are intended for direct
        reception by the general public. This service may include sound
        transmissions, television transmissions or other types of
        transmission.
          "(4) 'Broadcasting Station' means a station in the
        broadcasting service.
          "(5) 'Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency
        channel)' means an authorization given by an administration for
        a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency
        channel under specified conditions.
          "(6) 'Telecommunication' means any transmission, emission or
        reception of signs, signals, writings, images and sounds or
        intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical or other
        electromagnetic systems.
        "(i) 'Military Areas and Facilities' means those areas and
      facilities in the Federated States of Micronesia reserved or
      acquired by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      for use by the Government of the United States, as set forth in
      the separate agreements referred to in section 321.
        "(j) 'Tariff Schedules of the United States' means the Tariff
      Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and
      as promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the
      Tariff Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as
      amended.
        "(k) 'Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations' means the
      Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961,
      23 U.S.T. 3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95. [As amended Pub.
      L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(M), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
      873.]

      "Section 462
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia previously have concluded
    agreements pursuant to the Compact, which shall remain in effect
    and shall survive in accordance with their terms, as follows:
        "(1) Agreement Concluded Pursuant to Section 234 of the
      Compact;
        "(2) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding
      Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Security Concluded Pursuant to
      Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free Association; and
        "(3) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Federated States of Micronesia Regarding Aspects
      of the Marine Sovereignty and Jurisdiction of the Federated
      States of Micronesia.
      "(b) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia shall conclude prior to the date
    of submission of this Compact, as amended, to the legislatures of
    the two countries, the following related agreements which shall
    come into effect on the effective date of this Compact, as amended,
    and shall survive in accordance with their terms, as follows:
        "(1) Federal Programs and Services Agreement Between the
      Government of the United States of America and the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Article
      III of Title One, Article II of Title Two (including Section
      222), and Section 231 of the Compact of Free Association, as
      amended which includes:
          "(i) Postal Services and Related Programs;
          "(ii) Weather Services and Related Programs;
          "(iii) Civil Aviation Safety Service and Related Programs;
          "(iv) Civil Aviation Economic Services and Related Programs;
          "(v) United States Disaster Preparedness and Response
        Services and Related Programs;
          "(vi) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Services and
        Related Programs; and
          "(vii) Telecommunications Services and Related Programs.
        "(2) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      on Extradition, Mutual Assistance in Law Enforcement Matters and
      Penal Sanctions Concluded Pursuant to Section 175(a) of the
      Compact of Free Association, as amended;
        "(3) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      on Labor Recruitment Concluded Pursuant to Section 175(b) of the
      Compact of Free Association, as amended;
        "(4) Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of
      United States Economic Assistance Provided in the Compact of Free
      Association, as Amended, Between the Government of the United
      States of America and Government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia;
        "(5) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia
      Implementing Section 215 and Section 216 of the Compact, as
      Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund;
        "(6) Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights
      of the Government of the United States in the Federated States of
      Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Sections 211(b), 321 and 323 of
      the Compact of Free Association, as Amended; and the
        "(7) Status of Forces Agreement Between the Government of the
      United States of America and the Government of the Federated
      States of Micronesia Concluded Pursuant to Section 323 of the
      Compact of Free Association, as Amended. [As amended Pub. L. 110-
      229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(N), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 463
      "(a) Except as set forth in subsection (b) of this section, any
    reference in this Compact, as amended, to a provision of the United
    States Code or the Statutes at Large of the United States
    constitutes the incorporation of the language of such provision
    into this Compact, as amended, as such provision was in force on
    the effective date of this Compact, as amended.
      "(b) Any reference in Article IV and Article VI of Title One and
    Sections 174, 175, 178 and 342 to a provision of the United States
    Code or the Statutes at Large of the United States or to the
    Privacy Act, the Freedom of Information Act, the Administrative
    Procedure Act or the Immigration and Nationality Act constitutes
    the incorporation of the language of such provision into this
    Compact, as amended, as such provision was in force on the
    effective date of this Compact, as amended, or as it may be amended
    thereafter on a non-discriminatory basis according to the
    constitutional processes of the United States. [As amended Pub. L.
    110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(1)(O), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    873.]

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                          "CONCLUDING PROVISIONS                      

      "Section 471
      "Both the Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia shall take all necessary steps,
    of a general or particular character, to ensure, no later than the
    entry into force date of this Compact, as amended, the conformity
    of its laws, regulations and administrative procedures with the
    provisions of this Compact, as amended, or in the case of
    subsection (d) of section 141, as soon as reasonably possible
    thereafter.

      "Section 472
      "This Compact, as amended, may be accepted, by signature or
    otherwise, by the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia.
      "IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized, have
    signed this Compact of Free Association, as amended, which shall
    enter into force upon the exchange of diplomatic notes by which the
    Government of the United States of America and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia inform each other about the
    fulfillment of their respective requirements for entry into force.
      "DONE at Pohnpei, Federated States of Micronesia, in duplicate,
    this fourteenth (14) day of May, 2003, each text being equally
    authentic.

    Signed (May 14, 2003)
    For the Government of the
    United States of America:

    Ambassador Larry M. Dinger
    U.S. Ambassador to the
    Federated States of Micronesia

    Signed (May 14, 2003)
    For the Government of the
    Federated States of Micronesia:

    His Excellency Jesse B. Marehalau
    Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary"

    COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION, AS AMENDED, BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF
    THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF
                           THE MARSHALL ISLANDS
      Pub. L. 108-188, title II, Sec. 201(b), Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2795, as amended by Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2),
    May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873, provided that: "The Compact of Free
    Association, as amended, between the Government of the United
    States of America and the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands is as follows:

                                 "PREAMBLE                             

    "THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT
                  OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL ISLANDS
      "Affirming that their Governments and their relationship as
    Governments are founded upon respect for human rights and
    fundamental freedoms for all, and that the people of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands have the right to enjoy self-government;
    and
      "Affirming the common interests of the United States of America
    and the Republic of the Marshall Islands in creating and
    maintaining their close and mutually beneficial relationship
    through the free and voluntary association of their respective
    Governments; and
      "Affirming the interest of the Government of the United States in
    promoting the economic advancement and budgetary self-reliance of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
      "Recognizing that their relationship until the entry into force
    on October 21, 1986 of the Compact was based upon the International
    Trusteeship System of the United Nations Charter, and in particular
    Article 76 of the Charter; and that pursuant to Article 76 of the
    Charter, the people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands have
    progressively developed their institutions of self-government, and
    that in the exercise of their sovereign right to self-determination
    they, through their freely-expressed wishes, have adopted a
    Constitution appropriate to their particular circumstances; and
      "Recognizing that the Compact reflected their common desire to
    terminate the Trusteeship and establish a government-to-government
    relationship which was in accordance with the new political status
    based on the freely expressed wishes of the people of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands and appropriate to their particular
    circumstances; and
      "Recognizing that the people of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands have and retain their sovereignty and their sovereign right
    to self-determination and the inherent right to adopt and amend
    their own Constitution and form of government and that the approval
    of the entry of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands into the Compact by the people of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands constituted an exercise of their sovereign right
    to self-determination; and
      "Recognizing the common desire of the people of the United States
    and the people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to maintain
    their close government-to-government relationship, the United
    States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands:
      "NOW, THEREFORE, MUTUALLY AGREE to continue and strengthen their
    relationship of free association by amending the Compact, which
    continues to provide a full measure of self-government for the
    people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands; and
      "FURTHER AGREE that the relationship of free association derives
    from and is as set forth in this Compact, as amended, by the
    Governments of the United States and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands; and that, during such relationship of free association,
    the respective rights and responsibilities of the Government of the
    United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands in regard to this relationship of free association derive
    from and are as set forth in this Compact, as amended.

                                "TITLE ONE                            

                          "GOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS                      

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "SELF-GOVERNMENT                         

      "Section 111
      "The people of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, acting
    through the Government established under their Constitution, are
    self-governing.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                             "FOREIGN AFFAIRS                         

      "Section 121
      "(a) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has
    the capacity to conduct foreign affairs and shall do so in its own
    name and right, except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as
    amended.
      "(b) The foreign affairs capacity of the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands includes:
        "(1) the conduct of foreign affairs relating to law of the sea
      and marine resources matters, including the harvesting,
      conservation, exploration or exploitation of living and non-
      living resources from the sea, seabed or subsoil to the full
      extent recognized under international law;
        "(2) the conduct of its commercial, diplomatic, consular,
      economic, trade, banking, postal, civil aviation, communications,
      and cultural relations, including negotiations for the receipt of
      developmental loans and grants and the conclusion of arrangements
      with other governments and international and intergovernmental
      organizations, including any matters specially benefiting its
      individual citizens.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes that the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has the capacity
    to enter into, in its own name and right, treaties and other
    international agreements with governments and regional and
    international organizations.
      "(d) In the conduct of its foreign affairs, the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands confirms that it shall act in
    accordance with principles of international law and shall settle
    its international disputes by peaceful means.

      "Section 122
      "The Government of the United States shall support applications
    by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands for
    membership or other participation in regional or international
    organizations as may be mutually agreed.

      "Section 123
      "(a) In recognition of the authority and responsibility of the
    Government of the United States under Title Three, the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall consult, in the
    conduct of its foreign affairs, with the Government of the United
    States.
      "(b) In recognition of the foreign affairs capacity of the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Government
    of the United States, in the conduct of its foreign affairs, shall
    consult with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    on matters that the Government of the United States regards as
    relating to or affecting the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands.

      "Section 124
      "The Government of the United States may assist or act on behalf
    of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands in the
    area of foreign affairs as may be requested and mutually agreed
    from time to time. The Government of the United States shall not be
    responsible to third parties for the actions of the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands undertaken with the assistance
    or through the agency of the Government of the United States
    pursuant to this section unless expressly agreed.

      "Section 125
      "The Government of the United States shall not be responsible for
    nor obligated by any actions taken by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands in the area of foreign affairs,
    except as may from time to time be expressly agreed.

      "Section 126
      "At the request of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands and subject to the consent of the receiving state, the
    Government of the United States shall extend consular assistance on
    the same basis as for citizens of the United States to citizens of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands for travel outside the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, the United States and its
    territories and possessions.

      "Section 127
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, or its
    related agreements, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and
    benefits of the Government of the United States as Administering
    Authority which resulted from the application pursuant to the
    Trusteeship Agreement of any treaty or other international
    agreement to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on October
    20, 1986, are, as of that date, no longer assumed and enjoyed by
    the Government of the United States.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                              "COMMUNICATIONS                          

      "Section 131
      "(a) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has
    full authority and responsibility to regulate its domestic and
    foreign communications, and the Government of the United States
    shall provide communications assistance as mutually agreed.
      "(b) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands has
    elected to undertake all functions previously performed by the
    Government of the United States with respect to domestic and
    foreign communications, except for those functions set forth in a
    separate agreement entered into pursuant to this section of the
    Compact, as amended.

      "Section 132
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    permit the Government of the United States to operate
    telecommunications services in the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    to the extent necessary to fulfill the obligations of the
    Government of the United States under this Compact, as amended, in
    accordance with the terms of separate agreements entered into
    pursuant to this section of the Compact, as amended.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "IMMIGRATION                           

      "Section 141
      "(a) In furtherance of the special and unique relationship that
    exists between the United States and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, under the Compact, as amended, any person in the following
    categories may be admitted to lawfully engage in occupations, and
    establish residence as a nonimmigrant in the United States and its
    territories and possessions (the 'United States') without regard to
    paragraphs (5) or (7)(B)(i)(II) of section 212(a) of the
    Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(5) or
    (7)(B)(i)(II):
        "(1) a person who, on October 21, 1986, was a citizen of the
      Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, as defined in Title 53 of
      the Trust Territory Code in force on January 1, 1979, and has
      become and remains a citizen of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands;
        "(2) a person who acquires the citizenship of the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands at birth, on or after the effective date of
      the Constitution of the Republic of the Marshall Islands;
        "(3) an immediate relative of a person referred to in
      paragraphs (1) or (2) of this section, provided that such
      immediate relative is a naturalized citizen of the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands who has been an actual resident there for
      not less than five years after attaining such naturalization and
      who holds a certificate of actual residence, and further
      provided, that, in the case of a spouse, such spouse has been
      married to the person referred to in paragraph (1) or (2) of this
      section for at least five years, and further provided, that the
      Government of the United States is satisfied that such
      naturalized citizen meets the requirement of subsection (b) of
      section 104 of Public Law 99-239 as it was in effect on the day
      prior to the effective date of this Compact, as amended;
        "(4) a naturalized citizen of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands who was an actual resident there for not less than five
      years after attaining such naturalization and who satisfied these
      requirements as of April 30, 2003, who continues to be an actual
      resident and holds a certificate of actual residence, and whose
      name is included in a list furnished by the Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands to the Government of the United
      States no later than the effective date of the Compact, as
      amended, in form and content acceptable to the Government of the
      United States, provided, that the Government of the United States
      is satisfied that such naturalized citizen meets the requirement
      of subsection (b) of section 104 of Public Law 99-239 as it was
      in effect on the day prior to the effective date of this Compact,
      as amended; or
        "(5) an immediate relative of a citizen of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, regardless of the immediate relative's country
      of citizenship or period of residence in the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, if the citizen of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands is serving on active duty in any branch of the United
      States Armed Forces, or in the active reserves.
      "(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a person who
    is coming to the United States pursuant to an adoption outside the
    United States, or for the purpose of adoption in the United States,
    is ineligible for admission under the Compact and the Compact, as
    amended. This subsection shall apply to any person who is or was an
    applicant for admission to the United States on or after March 1,
    2003, including any applicant for admission in removal proceedings
    (including appellate proceedings) on or after March 1, 2003,
    regardless of the date such proceedings were commenced. This
    subsection shall have no effect on the ability of the Government of
    the United States or any United States State or local government to
    commence or otherwise take any action against any person or entity
    who has violated any law relating to the adoption of any person.
      "(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, no person
    who has been or is granted citizenship in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, or has been or is issued a Republic of the
    Marshall Islands passport pursuant to any investment, passport
    sale, or similar program has been or shall be eligible for
    admission to the United States under the Compact or the Compact, as
    amended.
      "(d) A person admitted to the United States under the Compact, or
    the Compact, as amended, shall be considered to have the permission
    of the Government of the United States to accept employment in the
    United States. An unexpired Republic of the Marshall Islands
    passport with unexpired documentation issued by the Government of
    the United States evidencing admission under the Compact or the
    Compact, as amended, shall be considered to be documentation
    establishing identity and employment authorization under section
    274A(b)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8
    U.S.C. 1324a(b)(1)(B). The Government of the United States will
    take reasonable and appropriate steps to implement and publicize
    this provision, and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands will also take reasonable and appropriate steps to
    publicize this provision.
      "(e) For purposes of the Compact and the Compact, as amended:
        "(1) the term 'residence' with respect to a person means the
      person's principal, actual dwelling place in fact, without regard
      to intent, as provided in section 101(a)(33) of the Immigration
      and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(33), and
      variations of the term 'residence,' including 'resident' and
      'reside,' shall be similarly construed;
        "(2) the term 'actual residence' means physical presence in the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands during eighty-five percent of
      the five-year period of residency required by section 141(a)(3)
      and (4);
        "(3) the term 'certificate of actual residence' means a
      certificate issued to a naturalized citizen by the Government of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands stating that the citizen has
      complied with the actual residence requirement of section
      141(a)(3) or (4);
        "(4) the term 'nonimmigrant' means an alien who is not an
      'immigrant' as defined in section 101(a)(15) of such Act, 8
      U.S.C. 1101(a)(15); and
        "(5) the term 'immediate relative' means a spouse, or unmarried
      son or unmarried daughter less than 21 years of age.
      "(f) The Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, shall apply
    to any person admitted or seeking admission to the United States
    (other than a United States possession or territory where such Act
    does not apply) under the Compact or the Compact, as amended, and
    nothing in the Compact or the Compact, as amended, shall be
    construed to limit, preclude, or modify the applicability of, with
    respect to such person:
        "(1) any ground of inadmissibility or deportability under such
      Act (except sections 212(a)(5) and 212(a)(7)(B)(i)(II) of such
      Act, as provided in subsection (a) of this section), and any
      defense thereto, provided that, section 237(a)(5) of such Act
      shall be construed and applied as if it reads as follows: 'any
      alien who has been admitted under the Compact, or the Compact, as
      amended, who cannot show that he or she has sufficient means of
      support in the United States, is deportable;'
        "(2) the authority of the Government of the United States under
      section 214(a)(1) of such Act to provide that admission as a
      nonimmigrant shall be for such time and under such conditions as
      the Government of the United States may by regulations prescribe;
        "(3) except for the treatment of certain documentation for
      purposes of section 274A(b)(1)(B) of such Act as provided by
      subsection (d) of this section of the Compact, as amended, any
      requirement under section 274A, including but not limited to
      section 274A(b)(1)(E);
        "(4) section 643 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and
      Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, Public Law 104-208, and
      actions taken pursuant to section 643; and
        "(5) the authority of the Government of the United States
      otherwise to administer and enforce the Immigration and
      Nationality Act, as amended, or other United States law.
      "(g) Any authority possessed by the Government of the United
    States under this section of the Compact or the Compact, as
    amended, may also be exercised by the Government of a territory or
    possession of the United States where the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, as amended, does not apply, to the extent such
    exercise of authority is lawful under a statute or regulation of
    such territory or possession that is authorized by the laws of the
    United States.
      "(h) Subsection (a) of this section does not confer on a citizen
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands the right to establish the
    residence necessary for naturalization under the Immigration and
    Nationality Act, as amended, or to petition for benefits for alien
    relatives under that Act. Subsection (a) of this section, however,
    shall not prevent a citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    from otherwise acquiring such rights or lawful permanent resident
    alien status in the United States.

      "Section 142
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States may be admitted
    to lawfully engage in occupations, and reside in the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands, subject to the rights of the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands to deny entry to or deport any
    such citizen or national as an undesirable alien. Any determination
    of inadmissibility or deportability shall be based on reasonable
    statutory grounds and shall be subject to appropriate
    administrative and judicial review within the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands. If a citizen or national of the United States is
    a spouse of a citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall allow the
    United States citizen spouse to establish residence. Should the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands citizen spouse predecease the
    United States citizen spouse during the marriage, the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall allow the United States
    citizen spouse to continue to reside in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands.
      "(b) In enacting any laws or imposing any requirements with
    respect to citizens and nationals of the United States entering the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands under subsection (a) of this
    section, including any grounds of inadmissibility or deportability,
    the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall accord
    to such citizens and nationals of the United States treatment no
    less favorable than that accorded to citizens of other countries.
      "(c) Consistent with subsection (a) of this section, with respect
    to citizens and nationals of the United States seeking to engage in
    employment or invest in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall adopt
    immigration-related procedures no less favorable than those adopted
    by the Government of the United States with respect to citizens of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands seeking employment in the
    United States.

      "Section 143
      "Any person who relinquishes, or otherwise loses, his United
    States nationality or citizenship, or his Republic of the Marshall
    Islands citizenship, shall be ineligible to receive the privileges
    set forth in sections 141 and 142. Any such person may apply for
    admission to the United States or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, as the case may be, in accordance with any other
    applicable laws of the United States or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands relating to immigration of aliens from other
    countries. The laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands or the
    United States, as the case may be, shall dictate the terms and
    conditions of any such person's stay.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "REPRESENTATION                          

      "Section 151
      "Relations between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be
    conducted in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
    Relations. In addition to diplomatic missions and representation,
    the Governments may establish and maintain other offices and
    designate other representatives on terms and in locations as may be
    mutually agreed.

      "Section 152
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States who, without
    authority of the United States, acts as the agent of the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands with regard to matters
    specified in the provisions of the Foreign Agents Registration Act
    of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), that apply with
    respect to an agent of a foreign principal shall be subject to the
    requirements of such Act. Failure to comply with such requirements
    shall subject such citizen or national to the same penalties and
    provisions of law as apply in the case of the failure of such an
    agent of a foreign principal to comply with such requirements. For
    purposes of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be considered to be a
    foreign country.
      "(b) Subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to a citizen
    or national of the United States employed by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands with respect to whom the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands from time to
    time certifies to the Government of the United States that such
    citizen or national is an employee of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands whose principal duties are other than those matters
    specified in the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as
    amended, that apply with respect to an agent of a foreign
    principal. The agency or officer of the United States receiving
    such certifications shall cause them to be filed with the Attorney
    General, who shall maintain a publicly available list of the
    persons so certified.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                         "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                     

      "Section 161
      "The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands declare that it is their policy to promote efforts
    to prevent or eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and
    to enrich understanding of the natural resources of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands. In order to carry out this policy, the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands agree to the following mutual and
    reciprocal undertakings:
        "(a) The Government of the United States:
          "(1) shall, for its activities controlled by the U.S. Army at
        Kwajalein Atoll and in the Mid-Atoll Corridor and for U.S. Army
        Kwajalein Atoll activities in the Republic of the Marshall
        Islands, continue to apply the Environmental Standards and
        Procedures for United States Army Kwajalein Atoll Activities in
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands, unless and until those
        Standards or Procedures are modified by mutual agreement of the
        Governments of the United States and the Republic of the
        Marshall Islands;
          "(2) shall apply the National Environmental Policy Act of
        1969, 83 Stat. 852, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., to its activities
        under the Compact, as amended, and its related agreements as if
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands were the United States;
          "(3) in the conduct of any activity not described in section
        161(a)(1) requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact
        Statement under section 161(a)(2), shall comply with standards
        substantively similar to those required by the following laws
        of the United States, taking into account the particular
        environment of the Republic of the Marshall Islands; the
        Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et
        seq.; the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.;
        the Clean Water Act (Federal Water Pollution Control Act), as
        amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.; Title I of the Marine
        Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (the Ocean
        Dumping Act), 33 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; the Toxic Substances
        Control Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; the Solid
        Waste Disposal Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.; and
        such other environmental protection laws of the United States
        and the Republic of the Marshall Islands as may be agreed from
        time to time with the Government of the Republic of the
        Marshall Islands;
          "(4) shall, prior to conducting any activity not described in
        section 161(a)(1) requiring the preparation of an Environmental
        Impact Statement under section 161(a)(2), develop, as agreed
        with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
        written environmental standards and procedures to implement the
        substantive provisions of the laws made applicable to U.S.
        Government activities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
        pursuant to section 161(a)(3).
        "(b) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
      shall continue to develop and implement standards and procedures
      to protect its environment. As a reciprocal obligation to the
      undertakings of the Government of the United States under this
      Article, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, taking into
      account its particular environment, shall continue to develop and
      implement standards for environmental protection substantively
      similar to those required of the Government of the United States
      by section 161(a)(3) prior to its conducting activities in the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands, substantively equivalent to
      activities conducted there by the Government of the United States
      and, as a further reciprocal obligation, shall enforce those
      standards.
        "(c) Section 161(a), including any standard or procedure
      applicable thereunder, and section 161(b) may be modified or
      superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of
      the United States and the Government of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands.
        "(d) In the event that an Environmental Impact Statement is no
      longer required under the laws of the United States for major
      Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human
      environment, the regulatory regime established under sections
      161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) shall continue to apply to such
      activities of the Government of the United States until amended
      by mutual agreement.
        "(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the
      activities of the Government of the United States under this
      Compact, as amended, and its related agreements from any
      environmental standard or procedure which may be applicable under
      sections 161(a)(3) and 161(a)(4) if the President determines it
      to be in the paramount interest of the Government of the United
      States to do so, consistent with Title Three of this Compact, as
      amended, and the obligations of the Government of the United
      States under international law. Prior to any decision pursuant to
      this subsection, the views of the Government of the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands shall be sought and considered to the extent
      practicable. If the President grants such an exemption, to the
      extent practicable, a report with his reasons for granting such
      exemption shall be given promptly to the Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands.
        "(f) The laws of the United States referred to in section
      161(a)(3) shall apply to the activities of the Government of the
      United States under this Compact, as amended, and its related
      agreements only to the extent provided for in this section.

      "Section 162
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may bring
    an action for judicial review of any administrative agency action
    or any activity of the Government of the United States pursuant to
    section 161(a) for enforcement of the obligations of the Government
    of the United States arising thereunder. The United States District
    Court for the District of Hawaii and the United States District
    Court for the District of Columbia shall have jurisdiction over
    such action or activity, and over actions brought under section
    172(b) which relate to the activities of the Government of the
    United States and its officers and employees, governed by section
    161, provided that:
        "(a) Such actions may only be civil actions for any appropriate
      civil relief other than punitive damages against the Government
      of the United States or, where required by law, its officers in
      their official capacity; no criminal actions may arise under this
      section.
        "(b) Actions brought pursuant to this section may be initiated
      only by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
        "(c) Administrative agency actions arising under section 161
      shall be reviewed pursuant to the standard of judicial review set
      forth in 5 U.S.C. 706.
        "(d) The United States District Court for the District of
      Hawaii and the United States District Court for the District of
      Columbia shall have jurisdiction to issue all necessary
      processes, and the Government of the United States agrees to
      submit itself to the jurisdiction of the court; decisions of the
      United States District Court shall be reviewable in the United
      States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit or the United
      States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia,
      respectively, or in the United States Supreme Court as provided
      by the laws of the United States.
        "(e) The judicial remedy provided for in this section shall be
      the exclusive remedy for the judicial review or enforcement of
      the obligations of the Government of the United States under this
      Article and actions brought under section 172(b), which relate to
      the activities of the Government of the United States and its
      officers and employees governed by section 161.
        "(f) In actions pursuant to this section, the Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be treated as if it were a
      United States citizen.

      "Section 163
      "(a) For the purpose of gathering data necessary to study the
    environmental effects of activities of the Government of the United
    States subject to the requirements of this Article, the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be granted access to
    facilities operated by the Government of the United States in the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, to the extent necessary for this
    purpose, except to the extent such access would unreasonably
    interfere with the exercise of the authority and responsibility of
    the Government of the United States under Title Three.
      "(b) The Government of the United States, in turn, shall be
    granted access to the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the
    purpose of gathering data necessary to discharge its obligations
    under this Article, except to the extent such access would
    unreasonably interfere with the exercise of the authority and
    responsibility of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands under Title One, and to the extent necessary for this
    purpose shall be granted access to documents and other information
    to the same extent similar access is provided the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands under the Freedom of Information
    Act, 5 U.S.C. 552.
      "(c) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    not impede efforts by the Government of the United States to comply
    with applicable standards and procedures.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                         "GENERAL LEGAL PROVISIONS                     

      "Section 171
      "Except as provided in this Compact, as amended, or its related
    agreements, the application of the laws of the United States to the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands by virtue of the Trusteeship
    Agreement ceased with respect to the Marshall Islands on October
    21, 1986, the date the Compact went into effect.

      "Section 172
      "(a) Every citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands who is
    not a resident of the United States shall enjoy the rights and
    remedies under the laws of the United States enjoyed by any non-
    resident alien.
      "(b) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and
    every citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be
    considered to be a 'person' within the meaning of the Freedom of
    Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and of the judicial review
    provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706,
    except that only the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands may seek judicial review under the Administrative Procedure
    Act or judicial enforcement under the Freedom of Information Act
    when such judicial review or enforcement relates to the activities
    of the Government of the United States governed by sections 161 and
    162.

      "Section 173
      "The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands agree to adopt and enforce such measures,
    consistent with this Compact, as amended, and its related
    agreements, as may be necessary to protect the personnel, property,
    installations, services, programs and official archives and
    documents maintained by the Government of the United States in the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to this Compact, as
    amended, and its related agreements and by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands in the United States pursuant to
    this Compact, Compact, as amended, and its related agreements.

      "Section 174
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, and
    its related agreements:
        "(a) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
      and its agencies and officials, shall be immune from the
      jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the
      Government of the United States, and its agencies and officials,
      shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands.
        "(b) The Government of the United States accepts responsibility
      for and shall pay:
          "(1) any unpaid money judgment rendered by the High Court of
        the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands against the
        Government of the United States with regard to any cause of
        action arising as a result of acts or omissions of the
        Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the
        Government of the United States prior to October 21, 1986;
          "(2) any claim settled by the claimant and the Government of
        the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands but not paid as of
        October 21, 1986; and
          "(3) settlement of any administrative claim or of any action
        before a court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or
        the Government of the United States, arising as a result of
        acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of
        the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States.
        "(c) Any claim not referred to in section 174(b) and arising
      from an act or omission of the Government of the Trust Territory
      of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States
      prior to the effective date of the Compact shall be adjudicated
      in the same manner as a claim adjudicated according to section
      174(d). In any claim against the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Government of the United
      States shall stand in the place of the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands. A judgment on any claim
      referred to in section 174(b) or this subsection, not otherwise
      satisfied by the Government of the United States, may be
      presented for certification to the United States Court of Appeals
      for the Federal Circuit, or its successor courts, which shall
      have jurisdiction therefore, notwithstanding the provisions of 28
      U.S.C. 1502, and which court's decisions shall be reviewable as
      provided by the laws of the United States. The United States
      Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall certify such
      judgment, and order payment thereof, unless it finds, after a
      hearing, that such judgment is manifestly erroneous as to law or
      fact, or manifestly excessive. In either of such cases the United
      States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall have
      jurisdiction to modify such judgment.
        "(d) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
      shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the
      United States, and the Government of the United States shall not
      be immune from the jurisdiction of the courts of the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands in any civil case in which an exception to
      foreign state immunity is set forth in the Foreign Sovereign
      Immunities Act (28 U.S.C. 1602 et seq.) or its successor
      statutes. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
      806(b)(2)(A), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 175
      "(a) A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended, and shall have the
    force of law, shall govern mutual assistance and cooperation in law
    enforcement matters, including the pursuit, capture, imprisonment
    and extradition of fugitives from justice and the transfer of
    prisoners, as well as other law enforcement matters. In the United
    States, the laws of the United States governing international
    extradition, including 18 U.S.C. 3184, 3186, and 3188-95, shall be
    applicable to the extradition of fugitives under the separate
    agreement, and the laws of the United States governing the transfer
    of prisoners, including 18 U.S.C. 4100-15, shall be applicable to
    the transfer of prisoners under the separate agreement; and
      "(b) A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended, and shall have the
    force of law, shall govern requirements relating to labor
    recruitment practices, including registration, reporting,
    suspension or revocation of authorization to recruit persons for
    employment in the United States, and enforcement for violations of
    such requirements.

      "Section 176
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands confirms
    that final judgments in civil cases rendered by any court of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall continue in full force
    and effect, subject to the constitutional power of the courts of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands to grant relief from judgments
    in appropriate cases.

      "Section 177
      "Section 177 of the Compact entered into force with respect to
    the Marshall Islands on October 21, 1986 as follows:
        " '(a) The Government of the United States accepts the
      responsibility for compensation owing to citizens of the Marshall
      Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia (or Palau) for
      loss or damage to property and person of the citizens of the
      Marshall Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia,
      resulting from the nuclear testing program which the Government
      of the United States conducted in the Northern Marshall Islands
      between June 30, 1946, and August 18, 1958.
        " '(b) The Government of the United States and the Government
      of the Marshall Islands shall set forth in a separate agreement
      provisions for the just and adequate settlement of all such
      claims which have arisen in regard to the Marshall Islands and
      its citizens and which have not as yet been compensated or which
      in the future may arise, for the continued administration by the
      Government of the United States of direct radiation related
      medical surveillance and treatment programs and radiological
      monitoring activities and for such additional programs and
      activities as may be mutually agreed, and for the assumption by
      the Government of the Marshall Islands of responsibility for
      enforcement of limitations on the utilization of affected areas
      developed in cooperation with the Government of the United States
      and for the assistance by the Government of the United States in
      the exercise of such responsibility as may be mutually agreed.
      This separate agreement shall come into effect simultaneously
      with this Compact and shall remain in effect in accordance with
      its own terms.
        " '(c) The Government of the United States shall provide to the
      Government of the Marshall Islands, on a grant basis, the amount
      of $150 million to be paid and distributed in accordance with the
      separate agreement referred to in this Section, and shall provide
      the services and programs set forth in this separate agreement,
      the language of which is incorporated into this Compact.'.
    The Compact, as amended, makes no changes to, and has no effect
    upon, Section 177 of the Compact, nor does the Compact, as amended,
    change or affect the separate agreement referred to in Section 177
    of the Compact including Articles IX and X of that separate
    agreement, and measures taken by the parties thereunder. [As
    amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(B), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 178
      "(a) The Federal agencies of the Government of the United States
    that provide services and related programs in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands pursuant to Title Two are authorized to settle and
    pay tort claims arising in the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    from the activities of such agencies or from the acts or omissions
    of the employees of such agencies. Except as provided in section
    178(b), the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 31 U.S.C. 1304 shall
    apply exclusively to such administrative settlements and payments.
      "(b) Claims under section 178(a) that cannot be settled under
    section 178(a) shall be disposed of exclusively in accordance with
    Article II of Title Four. Arbitration awards rendered pursuant to
    this subsection shall be paid out of funds under 31 U.S.C. 1304.
      "(c) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall, in the separate
    agreement referred to in section 231, provide for:
        "(1) the administrative settlement of claims referred to in
      section 178(a), including designation of local agents in each
      State of the Republic of the Marshall Islands; such agents to be
      empowered to accept, investigate and settle such claims, in a
      timely manner, as provided in such separate agreements; and
        "(2) arbitration, referred to in section 178(b), in a timely
      manner, at a site convenient to the claimant, in the event a
      claim is not otherwise settled pursuant to section 178(a).
      "(d) The provisions of section 174(d) shall not apply to claims
    covered by this section.
      "(e) Except as otherwise explicitly provided by law of the United
    States, this Compact, as amended, or its related agreements,
    neither the Government of the United States, its instrumentalities,
    nor any person acting on behalf of the Government of the United
    States, shall be named a party in any action based on, or arising
    out of, the activity or activities of a recipient of any grant or
    other assistance provided by the Government of the United States
    (or the activity or activities of the recipient's agency or any
    other person or entity acting on behalf of the recipient).

      "Section 179
      "(a) The courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall not
    exercise criminal jurisdiction over the Government of the United
    States, or its instrumentalities.
      "(b) The courts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall not
    exercise criminal jurisdiction over any person if the Government of
    the United States provides notification to the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands that such person was acting on
    behalf of the Government of the United States, for actions taken in
    furtherance of section 221 or 224 of this Compact, as amended, or
    any other provision of law authorizing financial, program, or
    service assistance to the Republic of the Marshall Islands. [As
    amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(C), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

                                "TITLE TWO                            

                            "ECONOMIC RELATIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "GRANT ASSISTANCE                         

      "Section 211 - Annual Grant Assistance
      "(a) In order to assist the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands in its efforts to promote the economic advancement
    and budgetary self-reliance of its people, and in recognition of
    the special relationship that exists between the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands and the United States, the Government of the
    United States shall provide assistance on a grant basis for a
    period of twenty years in the amounts set forth in section 217,
    commencing on the effective date of this Compact, as amended. Such
    grants shall be used for assistance in education, health care, the
    environment, public sector capacity building, and private sector
    development, or for other areas as mutually agreed, with priorities
    in the education and health care sectors. Consistent with the
    medium-term budget and investment framework described in subsection
    (f) of this section, the proposed division of this amount among the
    identified areas shall require the concurrence of both the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands, through the Joint Economic Management and
    Financial Accountability Committee described in section 214. The
    Government of the United States shall disburse the grant assistance
    and monitor the use of such grant assistance in accordance with the
    provisions of this Article and an Agreement Concerning Procedures
    for the Implementation of United States Economic Assistance
    Provided in the Compact of Free Association, as amended[,] Between
    the Government of the United States of America and the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands ('Fiscal Procedures
    Agreement') which shall come into effect simultaneously with this
    Compact, as amended.
        "(1) Education. - United States grant assistance shall be made
      available in accordance with the strategic framework described in
      subsection (f) of this section to support and improve the
      educational system of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and
      develop the human, financial, and material resources necessary
      for the Republic of the Marshall Islands to perform these
      services. Emphasis should be placed on advancing a quality basic
      education system.
        "(2) Health. - United States grant assistance shall be made
      available in accordance with the strategic framework described in
      subsection (f) of this section to support and improve the
      delivery of preventive, curative and environmental care and
      develop the human, financial, and material resources necessary
      for the Republic of the Marshall Islands to perform these
      services.
        "(3) Private sector development. - United States grant
      assistance shall be made available in accordance with the
      strategic framework described in subsection (f) of this section
      to support the efforts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to
      attract foreign investment and increase indigenous business
      activity by vitalizing the commercial environment, ensuring fair
      and equitable application of the law, promoting adherence to core
      labor standards, maintaining progress toward privatization of
      state-owned and partially state-owned enterprises, and engaging
      in other reforms.
        "(4) Capacity building in the public sector. - United States
      grant assistance shall be made available in accordance with the
      strategic framework described in subsection (f) of this section
      to support the efforts of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to
      build effective, accountable and transparent national and local
      government and other public sector institutions and systems.
        "(5) Environment. - United States grant assistance shall be
      made available in accordance with the strategic framework
      described in subsection (f) of this section to increase
      environmental protection; establish and manage conservation
      areas; engage in environmental infrastructure planning, design
      construction and operation; and to involve the citizens of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands in the process of conserving
      their country's natural resources.
      "(b) Kwajalein Atoll. - 
        "(1) Of the total grant assistance made available under
      subsection (a) of this section, the amount specified herein shall
      be allocated annually from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal year
      2023 (and thereafter in accordance with the Agreement Regarding
      the Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the
      United States in the Republic of the Marshall Islands concluded
      Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free
      Association, as Amended (Agreement between the Government of the
      United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating Rights)) to advance
      the objectives and specific priorities set forth in subsections
      (a) and (d) of this section and the Fiscal Procedures Agreement,
      to address the special needs of the community at Ebeye, Kwajalein
      Atoll and other Marshallese communities within Kwajalein Atoll.
      This United States grant assistance shall be made available, in
      accordance with the medium-term budget and investment framework
      described in subsection (f) of this section, to support and
      improve the infrastructure and delivery of services and develop
      the human and material resources necessary for the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands to carry out its responsibility to maintain
      such infrastructure and deliver such services. The amount of this
      assistance shall be $3,100,000, with an inflation adjustment as
      provided in section 218, from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal
      year 2013 and the fiscal year 2013 level of funding, with an
      inflation adjustment as provided in section 218, will be
      increased by $2 million for fiscal year 2014. The fiscal year
      2014 level of funding, with an inflation adjustment as provided
      in section 218, will be made available from fiscal year 2015
      through fiscal year 2023 (and thereafter as noted above).
        "(2) The Government of the United States shall also provide to
      the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in
      conjunction with section 321(a) of this Compact, as amended, an
      annual payment from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal year 2023
      (and thereafter in accordance with the Agreement between the
      Government of the United States and the Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding Military Use and
      Operating Rights) of $1.9 million. This grant assistance will be
      subject to the Fiscal Procedures Agreement and will be adjusted
      for inflation under section 218 and used to address the special
      needs of the community at Ebeye, Kwajalein Atoll and other
      Marshallese communities within Kwajalein Atoll with emphasis on
      the Kwajalein landowners, as described in the Fiscal Procedures
      Agreement.
        "(3) Of the total grant assistance made available under
      subsection (a) of this section, and in conjunction with section
      321(a) of the Compact, as amended, $200,000, with an inflation
      adjustment as provided in section 218, shall be allocated
      annually from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal year 2023 (and
      thereafter as provided in the Agreement between the Government of
      the United States and the Government of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating Rights) for
      a grant to support increased participation of the Government of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands Environmental Protection
      Authority in the annual U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll Environmental
      Standards Survey and to promote a greater Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands capacity for independent
      analysis of the Survey's findings and conclusions.
      "(c) Humanitarian Assistance - Republic of the Marshall Islands
    Program. - In recognition of the special development needs of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Government of the United
    States shall make available to the Government of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands, on its request and to be deducted from the
    grant amount made available under subsection (a) of this section, a
    Humanitarian Assistance - Republic of the Marshall Islands
    ('HARMI') Program with emphasis on health, education, and
    infrastructure (including transportation), projects and such other
    projects as mutually agreed. The terms and conditions of the HARMI
    shall be set forth in the Agreement Regarding the Military Use and
    Operating Rights of the Government of the United States in the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321
    and 323 of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended, which shall
    come into effect simultaneously with the amendments to this
    Compact.
      "(d) Public Infrastructure. - 
        "(1) Unless otherwise agreed, not less than 30 percent and not
      more than 50 percent of U.S. annual grant assistance provided
      under this section shall be made available in accordance with a
      list of specific projects included in the infrastructure
      improvement and maintenance plan prepared by the Government of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands as part of the strategic
      framework described in subsection (f) of this section.
        "(2) Infrastructure maintenance fund. - Five percent of the
      annual public infrastructure grant made available under paragraph
      (1) of this subsection shall be set aside, with an equal
      contribution from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands, as a contribution to an Infrastructure Maintenance Fund.
      Administration of the Infrastructure Maintenance Fund shall be
      governed by the Fiscal Procedures Agreement.
      "(e) Disaster Assistance Emergency Fund. - Of the total grant
    assistance made available under subsection (a) of this section, an
    amount of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) shall be provided
    annually, with an equal contribution from the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, as a contribution to a Disaster
    Assistance Emergency Fund ('DAEF'). Any funds from the DAEF may be
    used only for assistance and rehabilitation resulting from
    disasters and emergencies. The funds will be accessed upon
    declaration of a State of Emergency by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, with the concurrence of the
    United States Chief of Mission to the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands. Administration of the DAEF shall be governed by the Fiscal
    Procedures Agreement and the Federal Programs and Services
    Agreement referred to in section 231.
      "(f) Budget and Investment Framework. - The Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall prepare and maintain an
    official medium-term budget and investment framework. The framework
    shall be strategic in nature, shall be continuously reviewed and
    updated through the annual budget process, and shall make
    projections on a multi-year rolling basis. Each of the sectors and
    areas named in subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this section, or
    other sectors and areas as mutually agreed, shall be accorded
    specific treatment in the framework. Those portions of the
    framework that contemplate the use of United States grant funds
    shall require the concurrence of both the Government of the United
    States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
    [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(D), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 212 - Kwajalein Impact and Use
      "The Government of the United States shall provide to the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands in conjunction
    with section 321(a) of the Compact, as amended, and the agreement
    between the Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands regarding military use and
    operating rights, a payment in fiscal year 2004 of $15,000,000,
    with no adjustment for inflation. In fiscal year 2005 and through
    fiscal year 2013, the annual payment will be the fiscal year 2004
    amount ($15,000,000) with an inflation adjustment as provided under
    section 218. In fiscal year 2014, the annual payment will be
    $18,000,000 (with no adjustment for inflation) or the fiscal year
    2013 amount with an inflation adjustment under section 218,
    whichever is greater. For fiscal year 2015 through fiscal year 2023
    (and thereafter in accordance with the Agreement between the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating
    Rights) the annual payment will be the fiscal year 2014 amount,
    with an inflation adjustment as provided under section 218.

      "Section 213 - Accountability
      "(a) Regulations and policies normally applicable to United
    States financial assistance to its state and local governments, as
    set forth in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, shall apply to each
    grant described in section 211, and to grants administered under
    section 221 below, except as modified in the separate agreements
    referred to in section 231 of this Compact, as amended, or by U.S.
    law. As set forth in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, reasonable
    terms and conditions, including annual performance indicators that
    are necessary to ensure effective use of United States assistance
    and reasonable progress toward achieving program objectives may be
    attached. In addition, the United States may seek appropriate
    remedies for noncompliance with the terms and conditions attached
    to the assistance, or for failure to comply with section 234,
    including withholding assistance.
      "(b) The Government of the United States shall, for each fiscal
    year of the twenty years during which assistance is to be provided
    on a sector grant basis under section 211 (a), grant the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands an amount equal to the
    lesser of (i) one half of the reasonable, properly documented cost
    incurred during such fiscal year to conduct the annual audit
    required under Article VIII (2) of the Fiscal Procedures Agreement
    or (ii) $500,000. Such amount will not be adjusted for inflation
    under section 218 or otherwise.

      "Section 214 - Joint Economic Management and Financial
        Accountability Committee
      "The Governments of the United States and the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands shall establish a Joint Economic Management and
    Financial Accountability Committee, composed of a U.S. chair, two
    other members from the Government of the United States and two
    members from the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands. The Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability
    Committee shall meet at least once each year to review the audits
    and reports required under this Title and the Fiscal Procedures
    Agreement, evaluate the progress made by the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands in meeting the objectives identified in its
    framework described in subsection (f) of section 211, with
    particular focus on those parts of the framework dealing with the
    sectors and areas identified in subsection (a) of section 211,
    identify problems encountered, and recommend ways to increase the
    effectiveness of U.S. assistance made available under this Title.
    The establishment and operations of the Joint Economic Management
    and Financial Accountability Committee shall be governed by the
    Fiscal Procedures Agreement.

      "Section 215 - Annual Report
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    report annually to the President of the United States on the use of
    United States sector grant assistance and other assistance and
    progress in meeting mutually agreed program and economic goals. The
    Joint Economic Management and Financial Accountability Committee
    shall review and comment on the report and make appropriate
    recommendations based thereon.

      "Section 216 - Trust Fund
      "(a) The United States shall contribute annually for twenty years
    from the effective date of the Compact, as amended, in the amounts
    set forth in section 217 into a trust fund established in
    accordance with the Agreement Between the Government of the United
    States of America and the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands Implementing Section 216 and Section 217 of the
    Compact, as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund ('Trust Fund
    Agreement'), which shall come into effect simultaneously with this
    Compact, as amended. Upon termination of the annual grant
    assistance under section 211 (a), (d) and (e), the earnings of the
    fund shall thereafter be used for the purposes described in section
    211 or as otherwise mutually agreed.
      "(b) The United States contribution into the Trust Fund described
    in subsection (a) of this section is conditioned on the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands contributing to the Trust
    Fund at least $25,000,000, on the effective date of the Trust Fund
    Agreement or on October 1, 2003, whichever is later, $2,500,000
    prior to October 1, 2004, and $2,500,000 prior to October 1, 2005.
    Any funds received by the Republic of the Marshall Islands under
    section 111(d) of Public Law 99-239 (January 14, 1986), or
    successor provisions, would be contributed to the Trust Fund as a
    Republic of the Marshall Islands' contribution.
      "(c) The terms regarding the investment and management of funds
    and use of the income of the Trust Fund shall be governed by the
    Trust Fund Agreement. Funds derived from United States investment
    shall not be subject to Federal or state taxes in the United States
    or any taxes in the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Trust
    Fund Agreement shall also provide for annual reports to the
    Government of the United States and to the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands. The Trust Fund Agreement shall
    provide for appropriate distributions of trust fund proceeds to the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands and for appropriate remedies for
    the failure of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to use income
    of the Trust Fund for the annual grant purposes set forth in
    section 211. These remedies may include the return to the United
    States of the present market value of its contributions to the
    Trust Fund and the present market value of any undistributed income
    on the contributions of the United States. If this Compact, as
    amended, is terminated, the provisions of sections 451-453 of the
    Compact, as amended, and the Trust Fund Agreement shall govern
    treatment of any U.S. contributions to the Trust Fund or accrued
    income thereon.

      "Section 217 - Annual Grant Funding and Trust Fund Contributions
      "The funds described in sections 211, 212, 213(b), and 216 shall
    be made available as follows:



                         [IN MILLIONS OF DOLLARS]                     
    --------------------------------------------------------------------
    Fiscal year: 2004 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 035.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 07 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2005 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 034.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 07.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2006 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 034.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 08 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2007 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 033.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 08.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2008 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 033.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 09 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2009 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 032.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 09.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2010 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 032.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 010 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2011 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 031.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 010.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2012 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 031.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 011 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2013 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 030.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 011.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 015.0 
      Total: 057.7
    Fiscal year: 2014 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 032.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 012 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2015 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 031.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 012.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2016 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 031.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 013 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2017 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 030.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 013.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2018 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 030.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 014 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2019 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 029.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 014.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2020 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 029.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 015 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2021 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 028.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 015.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2022 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 028.2 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 016 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    Fiscal year: 2023 
      Annual Grants Section 211: 027.7 
      Audit Grant Section 213(b): 0.5 
      Trust Fund Section 216 (a&c): 016.5 
      Kwajalein Impact Section 212: 018.0 
      Total: 062.7
    --------------------------------------------------------------------


      "Section 218 - Inflation Adjustment
      "Except as otherwise provided, the amounts stated in this Title
    shall be adjusted for each United States Fiscal Year by the percent
    that equals two-thirds of the percent change in the United States
    Gross Domestic Product Implicit Price Deflator, or 5 percent,
    whichever is less in any one year, using the beginning of Fiscal
    Year 2004 as a base.

      "Section 219 - Carry-Over of Unused Funds
      "If in any year the funds made available by the Government of the
    United States for that year pursuant to this Article are not
    completely obligated by the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, the unobligated balances shall remain available
    in addition to the funds to be provided in subsequent years.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                     "SERVICES AND PROGRAM ASSISTANCE                 

      "Section 221
      "(a) Services. - The Government of the United States shall make
    available to the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in accordance
    with and to the extent provided in the Federal Programs and
    Services Agreement referred to in section 231, the services and
    related programs of:
        "(1) the United States Weather Service;
        "(2) the United States Postal Service;
        "(3) the United States Federal Aviation Administration;
        "(4) the United States Department of Transportation; and
        "(5) the Department of Homeland Security (Federal Emergency
      Management Agency), and the United States Agency for
      International Development, Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance.
    Upon the effective date of this Compact, as amended, the United
    States Departments and Agencies named or having responsibility to
    provide these services and related programs shall have the
    authority to implement the relevant provisions of the Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement referred to in section 231.
      "(b) Programs. - 
        "(1) Other than the services and programs covered by subsection
      (a) of this section, and to the extent authorized by the Congress
      of the United States, the Government of the United States shall
      make available to the Republic of the Marshall Islands the
      services and programs that were available to the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands on the effective date of this Compact, as
      amended, to the extent that such services and programs continue
      to be available to State and local governments of the United
      States. As set forth in the Fiscal Procedures Agreement, funds
      provided under subsection (a) of section 211 shall be considered
      to be local revenues of the Government of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands when used as the local share required to obtain
      Federal programs and services.
        "(2) Unless provided otherwise by U.S. law, the services and
      programs described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be
      extended in accordance with the terms of the Federal Programs and
      Services Agreement.
      "(c) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise
    such authority as is necessary to carry out its responsibilities
    under this Title and the Federal Programs and Services Agreement,
    including the authority to monitor and administer all service and
    program assistance provided by the United States to the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands. The Federal Programs and Services Agreement
    shall also set forth the extent to which services and programs
    shall be provided to the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
      "(d) Except as provided elsewhere in this Compact, as amended,
    under any separate agreement entered into under this Compact, as
    amended, or otherwise under U.S. law, all Federal domestic programs
    extended to or operating in the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    shall be subject to all applicable criteria, standards, reporting
    requirements, auditing procedures, and other rules and regulations
    applicable to such programs and services when operating in the
    United States.
      "(e) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands alternate energy development
    projects, studies, and conservation measures to the extent provided
    for the Freely Associated States in the laws of the United States.
    [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(E), May 8,
    2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 222
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands may agree from time to time to
    extend to the Republic of the Marshall Islands additional United
    States grant assistance, services and programs, as provided under
    the laws of the United States. Unless inconsistent with such laws,
    or otherwise specifically precluded by the Government of the United
    States at the time such additional grant assistance, services, or
    programs are extended, the Federal Programs and Services Agreement
    shall apply to any such assistance, services or programs.

      "Section 223
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    make available to the Government of the United States at no cost
    such land as may be necessary for the operations of the services
    and programs provided pursuant to this Article, and such facilities
    as are provided by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands at no cost to the Government of the United States as of the
    effective date of this Compact, as amended, or as may be mutually
    agreed thereafter.

      "Section 224
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may
    request, from the time to time, technical assistance from the
    Federal agencies and institutions of the Government of the United
    States, which are authorized to grant such technical assistance in
    accordance with its laws. If technical assistance is granted
    pursuant to such a request, the Government of the United States
    shall provide the technical assistance in a manner which gives
    priority consideration to the Republic of the Marshall Islands over
    other recipients not a part of the United States, its territories
    or possessions, and equivalent consideration to the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands with respect to other states in Free Association
    with the United States. Such assistance shall be made available on
    a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis to the extent provided by
    United States law.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                        "ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS                    

      "Section 231
      "The specific nature, extent and contractual arrangements of the
    services and programs provided for in section 221 of this Compact,
    as amended, as well as the legal status of agencies of the
    Government of the United States, their civilian employees and
    contractors, and the dependents of such personnel while present in
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and other arrangements in
    connection with the assistance, services, or programs furnished by
    the Government of the United States, are set forth in a Federal
    Programs and Services Agreement which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, as amended.

      "Section 232
      "The Government of the United States, in consultation with the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, shall determine
    and implement procedures for the periodic audit of all grants and
    other assistance made under Article I of this Title and of all
    funds expended for the services and programs provided under Article
    II of this Title. Further, in accordance with the Fiscal Procedures
    Agreement described in subsection (a) of section 211, the
    Comptroller General of the United States shall have such powers and
    authorities as described in section 103(k) of Public Law 108-188,
    117 Stat. 2734, December 17, 2003. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229,
    title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(F), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 873.]

      "Section 233
      "Approval of this Compact, as amended, by the Government of the
    United States, in accordance with its constitutional processes,
    shall constitute a pledge by the United States that the sums and
    amounts specified as grants in section 211 of this Compact, as
    amended, shall be appropriated and paid to the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands for such period as those provisions of this
    Compact, as amended, remain in force, provided that the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands complies with the terms and conditions of this
    Title and related subsidiary agreements.

      "Section 234
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pledges
    to cooperate with, permit, and assist if reasonably requested,
    designated and authorized representatives of the Government of the
    United States charged with investigating whether Compact funds, or
    any other assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended,
    have, or are being, used for purposes other than those set forth in
    this Compact, as amended, or its subsidiary agreements. In carrying
    out this investigative authority, such United States Government
    representatives may request that the Government of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands subpoena documents and records and compel
    testimony in accordance with the laws and Constitution of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands. Such assistance by the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to the Government of the
    United States shall not be unreasonably withheld. The obligation of
    the Government of the Marshall Islands to fulfill its pledge herein
    is a condition to its receiving payment of such funds or other
    assistance authorized under this Compact, as amended. The
    Government of the United States shall pay any reasonable costs for
    extraordinary services executed by the Government of the Marshall
    Islands in carrying out the provisions of this section.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                                  "TRADE                              

      "Section 241
      "The Republic of the Marshall Islands is not included in the
    customs territory of the United States.

      "Section 242
      "The President shall proclaim the following tariff treatment for
    articles imported from the Republic of the Marshall Islands which
    shall apply during the period of effectiveness of this title:
        "(a) Unless otherwise excluded, articles imported from the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands, subject to the limitations
      imposed under section 503(b) of title V of the Trade Act of 1974
      (19 U.S.C. 2463(b)), shall be exempt from duty.
        "(b) Only tuna in airtight containers provided for in heading
      1604.14.22 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States
      that is imported from the Republic of the Marshall Islands and
      the Federated States of Micronesia during any calendar year not
      to exceed 10 percent of apparent United States consumption of
      tuna in airtight containers during the immediately preceding
      calendar year, as reported by the National Marine Fisheries
      Service, shall be exempt from duty; but the quantity of tuna
      given duty-free treatment under this paragraph for any calendar
      year shall be counted against the aggregated quantity of tuna in
      airtight containers that is dutiable under rate column numbered 1
      of such heading 1604.14.22 for that calendar year.
        "(c) The duty-free treatment provided under subsection (a)
      shall not apply to:
          "(1) watches, clocks, and timing apparatus provided for in
        Chapter 91, excluding heading 9113, of the Harmonized Tariff
        Schedule of the United States;
          "(2) buttons (whether finished or not finished) provided for
        in items 9606.21.40 and 9606.29.20 of such Schedule;
          "(3) textile and apparel articles which are subject to
        textile agreements; and
          "(4) footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves,
        and leather wearing apparel which were not eligible articles
        for purposes of title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C.
        2461, et seq.) on April 1, 1984.
        "(d) If the cost or value of materials produced in the customs
      territory of the United States is included with respect to an
      eligible article which is a product of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the
      appraised value of the article at the time it is entered that is
      attributable to such United States cost or value may be applied
      for duty assessment purposes toward determining the percentage
      referred to in section 503(a)(2) of title V of the Trade Act of
      1974.

      "Section 243
      "Articles imported from the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    which are not exempt from duty under subsections (a), (b), (c), and
    (d) of section 242 shall be subject to the rates of duty set forth
    in column numbered 1-general of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
    the United States (HTSUS).

      "Section 244
      "(a) All products of the United States imported into the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands shall receive treatment no less favorable
    than that accorded like products of any foreign country with
    respect to customs duties or charges of a similar nature and with
    respect to laws and regulations relating to importation,
    exportation, taxation, sale, distribution, storage or use.
      "(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to
    advantages accorded by the Republic of the Marshall Islands by
    virtue of their full membership in the Pacific Island Countries
    Trade Agreement (PICTA), done on August 18, 2001, to those
    governments listed in Article 26 of PICTA, as of the date the
    Compact, as amended, is signed.
      "(c) Prior to entering into consultations on, or concluding, a
    free trade agreement with governments not listed in Article 26 of
    PICTA, the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall consult with the
    United States regarding whether or how subsection (a) of section
    244 shall be applied.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                           "FINANCE AND TAXATION                       

      "Section 251
      "The currency of the United States is the official circulating
    legal tender of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. Should the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands act to institute
    another currency, the terms of an appropriate currency transitional
    period shall be as agreed with the Government of the United States.

      "Section 252
      "The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands may, with
    respect to United States persons, tax income derived from sources
    within its respective jurisdiction, property situated therein,
    including transfers of such property by gift or at death, and
    products consumed therein, in such manner as the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands deems appropriate. The
    determination of the source of any income, or the situs of any
    property, shall for purposes of this Compact, as amended, be made
    according to the United States Internal Revenue Code.

      "Section 253
      "A citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, domiciled
    therein, shall be exempt from estate, gift, and generation-skipping
    transfer taxes imposed by the Government of the United States,
    provided that such citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    is neither a citizen nor a resident of the United States.

      "Section 254
      "(a) In determining any income tax imposed by the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall have authority to impose tax
    upon income derived by a resident of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands from sources without the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
    in the same manner and to the same extent as the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands imposes tax upon income derived
    from within its own jurisdiction. If the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands exercises such authority as provided in
    this subsection, any individual resident of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands who is subject to tax by the Government of the
    United States on income which is also taxed by the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be relieved of liability
    to the Government of the United States for the tax which, but for
    this subsection, would otherwise be imposed by the Government of
    the United States on such income. However, the relief from
    liability to the United States Government referred to in the
    preceding sentence means only relief in the form of the foreign tax
    credit (or deduction in lieu thereof) available with respect to the
    income taxes of a possession of the United States, and relief in
    the form of the exclusion under section 911 of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986. For purposes of this section, the term 'resident of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands' shall be deemed to include
    any person who was physically present in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands for a period of 183 or more days during any
    taxable year.
      "(b) If the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    subjects income to taxation substantially similar to that which was
    imposed by the Trust Territory Code in effect on January 1, 1980,
    such Government shall be deemed to have exercised the authority
    described in section 254(a).

      "Section 255
      "For purposes of section 274(h)(3)(A) of the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Code of 1986, the term 'North American Area' shall include
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

                               "TITLE THREE                           

                      "SECURITY AND DEFENSE RELATIONS                  

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY                   

      "Section 311
      "(a) The Government of the United States has full authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
      "(b) This authority and responsibility includes:
        "(1) the obligation to defend the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands and its people from attack or threats thereof as the
      United States and its citizens are defended;
        "(2) the option to foreclose access to or use of the Republic
      of the Marshall Islands by military personnel or for the military
      purposes of any third country; and
        "(3) the option to establish and use military areas and
      facilities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, subject to
      the terms of the separate agreements referred to in sections 321
      and 323.
      "(c) The Government of the United States confirms that it shall
    act in accordance with the principles of international law and the
    Charter of the United Nations in the exercise of this authority and
    responsibility.

      "Section 312
      "Subject to the terms of any agreements negotiated in accordance
    with sections 321 and 323, the Government of the United States may
    conduct within the lands, waters and airspace of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands the activities and operations necessary for
    the exercise of its authority and responsibility under this Title.

      "Section 313
      "(a) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    refrain from actions that the Government of the United States
    determines, after appropriate consultation with that Government, to
    be incompatible with its authority and responsibility for security
    and defense matters in or relating to the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands.
      "(b) The consultations referred to in this section shall be
    conducted expeditiously at senior levels of the two Governments,
    and the subsequent determination by the Government of the United
    States referred to in this section shall be made only at senior
    interagency levels of the Government of the United States.
      "(c) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall
    be afforded, on an expeditious basis, an opportunity to raise its
    concerns with the United States Secretary of State personally and
    the United States Secretary of Defense personally regarding any
    determination made in accordance with this section.

      "Section 314
      "(a) Unless otherwise agreed, the Government of the United States
    shall not, in the Republic of the Marshall Islands:
        "(1) test by detonation or dispose of any nuclear weapon, nor
      test, dispose of, or discharge any toxic chemical or biological
      weapon; or
        "(2) test, dispose of, or discharge any other radioactive,
      toxic chemical or biological materials in an amount or manner
      that would be hazardous to public health or safety.
      "(b) Unless otherwise agreed, other than for transit or
    overflight purposes or during time of a national emergency declared
    by the President of the United States, a state of war declared by
    the Congress of the United States or as necessary to defend against
    an actual or impending armed attack on the United States, the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia, the Government of the United States shall not store in
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia any toxic chemical weapon, nor any radioactive materials
    nor any toxic chemical materials intended for weapons use.
      "(c) Radioactive, toxic chemical, or biological materials not
    intended for weapons use shall not be affected by section 314(b).
      "(d) No material or substance referred to in this section shall
    be stored in the Republic of the Marshall Islands except in an
    amount and manner which would not be hazardous to public health or
    safety. In determining what shall be an amount or manner which
    would be hazardous to public health or safety under this section,
    the Government of the United States shall comply with any
    applicable mutual agreement, international guidelines accepted by
    the Government of the United States, and the laws of the United
    States and their implementing regulations.
      "(e) Any exercise of the exemption authority set forth in section
    161(e) shall have no effect on the obligations of the Government of
    the United States under this section or on the application of this
    subsection.
      "(f) The provisions of this section shall apply in the areas in
    which the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    exercises jurisdiction over the living resources of the seabed,
    subsoil or water column adjacent to its coasts.

      "Section 315
      "The Government of the United States may invite members of the
    armed forces of other countries to use military areas and
    facilities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in conjunction
    with and under the control of United States Armed Forces. Use by
    units of the armed forces of other countries of such military areas
    and facilities, other than for transit and overflight purposes,
    shall be subject to consultation with and, in the case of major
    units, approval of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands.

      "Section 316
      "The authority and responsibility of the Government of the United
    States under this Title may not be transferred or otherwise
    assigned.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                 "DEFENSE FACILITIES AND OPERATING RIGHTS             

      "Section 321
      "(a) Specific arrangements for the establishment and use by the
    Government of the United States of military areas and facilities in
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands are set forth in separate
    agreements, which shall remain in effect in accordance with the
    terms of such agreements.
      "(b) If, in the exercise of its authority and responsibility
    under this Title, the Government of the United States requires the
    use of areas within the Republic of the Marshall Islands in
    addition to those for which specific arrangements are concluded
    pursuant to section 321(a), it may request the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands to satisfy those requirements
    through leases or other arrangements. The Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall sympathetically consider any
    such request and shall establish suitable procedures to discuss it
    with and provide a prompt response to the Government of the United
    States.
      "(c) The Government of the United States recognizes and respects
    the scarcity and special importance of land in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands. In making any requests pursuant to section
    321(b), the Government of the United States shall follow the policy
    of requesting the minimum area necessary to accomplish the required
    security and defense purpose, of requesting only the minimum
    interest in real property necessary to support such purpose, and of
    requesting first to satisfy its requirement through public real
    property, where available, rather than through private real
    property.

      "Section 322
      "The Government of the United States shall provide and maintain
    fixed and floating aids to navigation in the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands at least to the extent necessary for the exercise
    of its authority and responsibility under this Title.

      "Section 323
      "The military operating rights of the Government of the United
    States and the legal status and contractual arrangements of the
    United States Armed Forces, their members, and associated
    civilians, while present in the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    are set forth in separate agreements, which shall remain in effect
    in accordance with the terms of such agreements.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

          "DEFENSE TREATIES AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AGREEMENTS      

      "Section 331
      "Subject to the terms of this Compact, as amended, and its
    related agreements, the Government of the United States,
    exclusively, has assumed and enjoys, as to the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and
    benefits of:
        "(a) Any defense treaty or other international security
      agreement applied by the Government of the United States as
      Administering Authority of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands as of October 20, 1986.
        "(b) Any defense treaty or other international security
      agreement to which the Government of the United States is or may
      become a party which it determines to be applicable in the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands. Such a determination by the
      Government of the United States shall be preceded by appropriate
      consultation with the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

               "SERVICE IN ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES           

      "Section 341
      "Any person entitled to the privileges set forth in section 141
    (with the exception of any person described in section 141(a)(5)
    who is not a citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands) shall
    be eligible to volunteer for service in the Armed Forces of the
    United States, but shall not be subject to involuntary induction
    into military service of the United States as long as such person
    has resided in the United States for a period of less than one
    year, provided that no time shall count towards this one year while
    a person admitted to the United States under the Compact, or the
    Compact, as amended, is engaged in full-time study in the United
    States. Any person described in section 141(a)(5) who is not a
    citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be subject to
    United States laws relating to selective service. [As amended Pub.
    L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(G), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    874.]

      "Section 342
      "The Government of the United States shall have enrolled, at any
    one time, at least one qualified student from the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, as may be nominated by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, in each of:
        "(a) The United States Coast Guard Academy pursuant to section
      195 of title 14, United States Code.
        "(b) The United States Merchant Marine Academy pursuant to
      section 1303(b)(6) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 ([former] 46
      U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6)) [see 46 U.S.C. 51304], provided that
      the provisions of section 1303(b)(6)(C) of that Act [now 46
      U.S.C. 51304(b)(2)] shall not apply to the enrollment of students
      pursuant to section 342(b) of this Compact, as amended. [As
      amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(H), May 8,
      2008, 122 Stat. 874.]

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

      "Section 351
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall continue to maintain a
    Joint Committee empowered to consider disputes arising under the
    implementation of this Title and its related agreements.
      "(b) The membership of the Joint Committee shall comprise
    selected senior officials of the two Governments. The senior United
    States military commander in the Pacific area shall be the senior
    United States member of the Joint Committee. For the meetings of
    the Joint Committee, each of the two Governments may designate
    additional or alternate representatives as appropriate for the
    subject matter under consideration.
      "(c) Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the Joint Committee shall
    meet annually at a time and place to be designated, after
    appropriate consultation, by the Government of the United States.
    The Joint Committee also shall meet promptly upon request of either
    of its members. The Joint Committee shall follow such procedures,
    including the establishment of functional subcommittees, as the
    members may from time to time agree. Upon notification by the
    Government of the United States, the Joint Committee of the United
    States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall meet promptly
    in a combined session with the Joint Committee established and
    maintained by the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to consider
    matters within the jurisdiction of the two Joint Committees.
      "(d) Unresolved issues in the Joint Committee shall be referred
    to the Governments for resolution, and the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be afforded, on an
    expeditious basis, an opportunity to raise its concerns with the
    United States Secretary of Defense personally regarding any
    unresolved issue which threatens its continued association with the
    Government of the United States.

      "Section 352
      "In the exercise of its authority and responsibility under Title
    Three, the Government of the United States shall accord due respect
    to the authority and responsibility of the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands under Titles One, Two and Four and
    to the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands to assure the well-being of its people.

      "Section 353
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall not include the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands as a named party
    to a formal declaration of war, without that Government's consent.
      "(b) Absent such consent, this Compact, as amended, is without
    prejudice, on the ground of belligerence or the existence of a
    state of war, to any claims for damages which are advanced by the
    citizens, nationals or Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, which arise out of armed conflict subsequent to October
    21, 1986, and which are:
        "(1) petitions to the Government of the United States for
      redress; or
        "(2) claims in any manner against the government, citizens,
      nationals or entities of any third country.
      "(c) Petitions under section 353(b)(1) shall be treated as if
    they were made by citizens of the United States.

      "Section 354
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands are jointly committed to
    continue their security and defense relations, as set forth in this
    Title. Accordingly, it is the intention of the two countries that
    the provisions of this Title shall remain binding as long as this
    Compact, as amended, remains in effect, and thereafter as mutually
    agreed, unless earlier terminated by mutual agreement pursuant to
    section 441, or amended pursuant to Article III of Title Four. If
    at any time the Government of the United States, or the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, acting unilaterally,
    terminates this Title, such unilateral termination shall be
    considered to be termination of the entire Compact, as amended, in
    which case the provisions of sections 442 and 452 (in the case of
    termination by the Government of the United States) or sections 443
    and 453 (in the case of termination by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands), with the exception of paragraph
    (3) of subsection (a) of section 452 or paragraph (3) of subsection
    (a) of section 453, as the case may be, shall apply.
      "(b) The Government of the United States recognizes, in view of
    the special relationship between the Government of the United
    States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
    and in view of the existence of the separate agreement regarding
    mutual security concluded with the Government of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands pursuant to sections 321 and 323, that, even
    if this Title should terminate, any attack on the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands during the period in which such separate agreement
    is in effect, would constitute a threat to the peace and security
    of the entire region and a danger to the United States. In the
    event of such an attack, the Government of the United States would
    take action to meet the danger to the United States and to the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands in accordance with its
    constitutional processes.
      "(c) As reflected in Article 21(1)(b) of the Trust Fund
    Agreement, the Government of the United States and the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands further recognize, in view
    of the special relationship between their countries, that even if
    this Title should terminate, the Government of Republic of the
    Marshall Islands shall refrain from actions which the Government of
    the United States determines, after appropriate consultation with
    that Government, to be incompatible with its authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands or the Federated States of
    Micronesia. [As amended Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec.
    806(b)(2)(I), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat. 874.]

                                "TITLE FOUR                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE                   

      "Section 411
      "Pursuant to section 432 of the Compact and subject to subsection
    (e) of section 461 of the Compact, as amended, the Compact, as
    amended, shall come into effect upon mutual agreement between the
    Government of the United States and the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands subsequent to completion of the following:
        "(a) Approval by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands in accordance with its constitutional processes.
        "(b) Approval by the Government of the United States in
      accordance with its constitutional processes.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                    "CONFERENCE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION                

      "Section 421
      "The Government of the United States shall confer promptly at the
    request of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    and that Government shall confer promptly at the request of the
    Government of the United States on matters relating to the
    provisions of this Compact, as amended, or of its related
    agreements.

      "Section 422
      "In the event the Government of the United States or the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, after
    conferring pursuant to section 421, determines that there is a
    dispute and gives written notice thereof, the two Governments shall
    make a good faith effort to resolve the dispute between themselves.

      "Section 423
      "If a dispute between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands cannot be
    resolved within 90 days of written notification in the manner
    provided in section 422, either party to the dispute may refer it
    to arbitration in accordance with section 424.

      "Section 424
      "Should a dispute be referred to arbitration as provided for in
    section 423, an Arbitration Board shall be established for the
    purpose of hearing the dispute and rendering a decision which shall
    be binding upon the two parties to the dispute unless the two
    parties mutually agree that the decision shall be advisory.
    Arbitration shall occur according to the following terms:
        "(a) An Arbitration Board shall consist of a Chairman and two
      other members, each of whom shall be a citizen of a party to the
      dispute. Each of the two Governments that is a party to the
      dispute shall appoint one member to the Arbitration Board. If
      either party to the dispute does not fulfill the appointment
      requirements of this section within 30 days of referral of the
      dispute to arbitration pursuant to section 423, its member on the
      Arbitration Board shall be selected from its own standing list by
      the other party to the dispute. Each Government shall maintain a
      standing list of 10 candidates. The parties to the dispute shall
      jointly appoint a Chairman within 15 days after selection of the
      other members of the Arbitration Board. Failing agreement on a
      Chairman, the Chairman shall be chosen by lot from the standing
      lists of the parties to the dispute within 5 days after such
      failure.
        "(b) Unless otherwise provided in this Compact, as amended, or
      its related agreements, the Arbitration Board shall have
      jurisdiction to hear and render its final determination on all
      disputes arising exclusively under Articles I, II, III, IV and V
      of Title One, Title Two, Title Four, and their related
      agreements.
        "(c) Each member of the Arbitration Board shall have one vote.
      Each decision of the Arbitration Board shall be reached by
      majority vote.
        "(d) In determining any legal issue, the Arbitration Board may
      have reference to international law and, in such reference, shall
      apply as guidelines the provisions set forth in Article 38 of the
      Statute of the International Court of Justice.
        "(e) The Arbitration Board shall adopt such rules for its
      proceedings as it may deem appropriate and necessary, but such
      rules shall not contravene the provisions of this Compact, as
      amended. Unless the parties provide otherwise by mutual
      agreement, the Arbitration Board shall endeavor to render its
      decision within 30 days after the conclusion of arguments. The
      Arbitration Board shall make findings of fact and conclusions of
      law and its members may issue dissenting or individual opinions.
      Except as may be otherwise decided by the Arbitration Board, one-
      half of all costs of the arbitration shall be borne by the
      Government of the United States and the remainder shall be borne
      by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                                "AMENDMENT                            

      "Section 431
      "The provisions of this Compact, as amended, may be further
    amended by mutual agreement of the Government of the United States
    and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, in
    accordance with their respective constitutional processes.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "TERMINATION                           

      "Section 441
      "This Compact, as amended, may be terminated by mutual agreement
    of the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and the
    Government of the United States, in accordance with their
    respective constitutional processes. Such mutual termination of
    this Compact, as amended, shall be without prejudice to the
    continued application of section 451 of this Compact, as amended,
    and the provisions of the Compact, as amended, set forth therein.

      "Section 442
      "Subject to section 452, this Compact, as amended, may be
    terminated by the Government of the United States in accordance
    with its constitutional processes. Such termination shall be
    effective on the date specified in the notice of termination by the
    Government of the United States but not earlier than six months
    following delivery of such notice. The time specified in the notice
    of termination may be extended. Such termination of this Compact,
    as amended, shall be without prejudice to the continued application
    of section 452 of this Compact, as amended, and the provisions of
    the Compact, as amended, set forth therein.

      "Section 443
      "This Compact, as amended, shall be terminated by the Government
    of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, pursuant to its
    constitutional processes, subject to section 453 if the people
    represented by that Government vote in a plebiscite to terminate
    the Compact, as amended.. [sic] The Government of the Republic of
    the Marshall Islands shall notify the Government of the United
    States of its intention to call such a plebiscite, which shall take
    place not earlier than three months after delivery of such notice.
    The plebiscite shall be administered by the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands in accordance with its
    constitutional and legislative processes, but the Government of the
    United States may send its own observers and invite observers from
    a mutually agreed party. If a majority of the valid ballots cast in
    the plebiscite favors termination, the Government of the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands shall, upon certification of the results of
    the plebiscite, give notice of termination to the Government of the
    United States, such termination to be effective on the date
    specified in such notice but not earlier than three months
    following the date of delivery of such notice. The time specified
    in the notice of termination may be extended. [As amended Pub. L.
    110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(J), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    874.]

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "SURVIVABILITY                          

      "Section 451
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 441, economic
    and other assistance by the Government of the United States shall
    continue only if and as mutually agreed by the Governments of the
    United States and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and in
    accordance with the countries' respective constitutional processes.
      "(b) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as reflected in subsections
    (b) and (c) of section 354 of this Compact, as amended, and the
    separate agreement entered into consistent with those subsections,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 441 prior to the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the United States shall continue to make contributions to
    the Trust Fund described in section 216 of this Compact, as
    amended.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands described in subsection (b) of
    this section, if termination occurs pursuant to section 441
    following the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this
    Compact, as amended, the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall be
    entitled to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 216 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement.

      "Section 452
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 442 prior to
    the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the following provisions of this amended Compact shall
    remain in full force and effect until the twentieth anniversary of
    the effective date of this Compact, as amended, and thereafter as
    mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Article One and sections 232 and 234 of Title Two;
        "(3) Title Three; and
        "(4) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) Should termination occur pursuant to section 442 before the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended:
        "(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection and
      subsection (c) of this section, economic and other assistance by
      the United States shall continue only if and as mutually agreed
      by the Governments of the United States and the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands.
        "(2) In view of the special relationship of the United States
      and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as reflected in
      subsections (b) and (c) of section 354 of this Compact, as
      amended, and the separate agreement regarding mutual security,
      and the Trust Fund Agreement, the United States shall continue to
      make contributions to the Trust Fund described in section 216 of
      this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in the Trust
      Fund Agreement.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 442 following the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall continue to be
    eligible to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 216 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement.

      "Section 453
      "(a) Should termination occur pursuant to section 443 prior to
    the twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the following provisions of this Compact, as amended,
    shall remain in full force and effect until the twentieth
    anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as amended, and
    thereafter as mutually agreed:
        "(1) Article VI and sections 172, 173, 176 and 177 of Title
      One;
        "(2) Sections 232 and 234 of Title Two;
        "(3) Title Three; and
        "(4) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.
      "(b) Upon receipt of notice of termination pursuant to section
    443, the Government of the United States and the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands shall promptly consult with regard
    to their future relationship. Except as provided in subsections (c)
    and (d) of this section, these consultations shall determine the
    level of economic and other assistance, if any, which the
    Government of the United States shall provide to the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the period ending on the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, and for any period thereafter, if mutually agreed.
      "(c) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 443 prior to the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the United States shall continue to make contributions to
    the Trust Fund described in section 216 of this Compact, as
    amended.
      "(d) In view of the special relationship of the United States and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as reflected in subsections
    354(b) and (c) of this Compact, as amended, and the separate
    agreement regarding mutual security, and the Trust Fund Agreement,
    if termination occurs pursuant to section 443 following the
    twentieth anniversary of the effective date of this Compact, as
    amended, the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall continue to be
    eligible to receive proceeds from the Trust Fund described in
    section 216 of this Compact, as amended, in the manner described in
    those provisions and the Trust Fund Agreement.

      "Section 454
      "Notwithstanding any other provision of this Compact, as amended:
        "(a) The Government of the United States reaffirms its
      continuing interest in promoting the economic advancement and
      budgetary self-reliance of the people of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands.
        "(b) The separate agreements referred to in Article II of Title
      Three shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                           "DEFINITION OF TERMS                       

      "Section 461
      "For the purpose of this Compact, as amended, only, and without
    prejudice to the views of the Government of the United States or
    the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands as to the
    nature and extent of the jurisdiction of either of them under
    international law, the following terms shall have the following
    meanings:
        "(a) 'Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' means the area
      established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the former
      administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Ponape, the Marshall
      Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust Territory Code,
      section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term does not
      include the area of Palau or the Northern Mariana Islands.
        "(b) 'Trusteeship Agreement' means the agreement setting forth
      the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations
      April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered
      into force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8
      U.N.T.S. 189.
        "(c) 'The Republic of the Marshall Islands' and 'the Federated
      States of Micronesia' are used in a geographic sense and include
      the land and water areas to the outer limits of the territorial
      sea and the air space above such areas as now or hereafter
      recognized by the Government of the United States.
        "(d) 'Compact' means the Compact of Free Association Between
      the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Marshall Islands, that was approved by the United States Congress
      in section 201 of Public Law 99-239 (Jan. 14, 1986) and went into
      effect with respect to the Republic of the Marshall Islands on
      October 21, 1986.
        "(e) 'Compact, as amended' means the Compact of Free
      Association Between the United States and the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, as amended. The effective date of the Compact,
      as amended, shall be on a date to be determined by the President
      of the United States, and agreed to by the Government of the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands, following formal approval of
      the Compact, as amended, in accordance with section 411 of this
      Compact, as amended.
        "(f) 'Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands' means
      the Government established and organized by the Constitution of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands including all the political
      subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
        "(g) 'Government of the Federated States of Micronesia' means
      the Government established and organized by the Constitution of
      the Federated States of Micronesia including all the political
      subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
        "(h) The following terms shall be defined consistent with the
      1998 Edition of the Radio Regulations of the International
      Telecommunication Union as follows:
          "(1) 'Radiocommunication' means telecommunication by means of
        radio waves.
          "(2) 'Station' means one or more transmitters or receivers or
        a combination of transmitters and receivers, including the
        accessory equipment, necessary at one location for carrying on
        a radiocommunication service, or the radio astronomy service.
          "(3) 'Broadcasting Service' means a radiocommunication
        service in which the transmissions are intended for direct
        reception by the general public. This service may include sound
        transmissions, television transmissions or other types of
        transmission.
          "(4) 'Broadcasting Station' means a station in the
        broadcasting service.
          "(5) 'Assignment (of a radio frequency or radio frequency
        channel)' means an authorization given by an administration for
        a radio station to use a radio frequency or radio frequency
        channel under specified conditions.
          "(6) 'Telecommunication' means any transmission, emission or
        reception of signs, signals, writings, images and sounds or
        intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical or other
        electromagnetic systems.
        "(i) 'Military Areas and Facilities' means those areas and
      facilities in the Republic of the Marshall Islands reserved or
      acquired by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands for use by the Government of the United States, as set
      forth in the separate agreements referred to in section 321.
        "(j) 'Tariff Schedules of the United States' means the Tariff
      Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and
      as promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the
      Tariff Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as
      amended.
        "(k) 'Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations' means the
      Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961,
      23 U.S.T. 3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95. [As amended Pub.
      L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(K), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
      874.]

      "Section 462
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands previously have concluded
    agreements, which shall remain in effect and shall survive in
    accordance with their terms, as follows:
        "(1) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Marshall Islands for the Implementation of
      Section 177 of the Compact of Free Association;
        "(2) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Marshall Islands by Persons Displaced as a
      Result of the United States Nuclear Testing Program in the
      Marshall Islands;
        "(3) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Marshall Islands Regarding the Resettlement
      of Enjebi Island;
        "(4) Agreement Concluded Pursuant to Section 234 of the
      Compact; and
        "(5) Agreement Between the Government of the United States and
      the Government of the Marshall Islands Regarding Mutual Security
      Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free
      Association.
      "(b) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall conclude prior to the
    date of submission of this Compact to the legislatures of the two
    countries, the following related agreements which shall come into
    effect on the effective date of this Compact, as amended, and shall
    survive in accordance with their terms, as follows:
        "(1) Federal Programs and Services Agreement Between the
      Government of the United States of America and the Government of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to
      Article III of Title One, Article II of Title Two (including
      Section 222), and Section 231 of the Compact of Free Association,
      as Amended, which include:
          "(i) Postal Services and Related Programs;
          "(ii) Weather Services and Related Programs;
          "(iii) Civil Aviation Safety Service and Related Programs;
          "(iv) Civil Aviation Economic Services and Related Programs;
          "(v) United States Disaster Preparedness and Response
        Services and Related Programs; and
          "(vi) Telecommunications Services and Related Programs.
        "(2) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands on Extradition, Mutual Assistance in Law Enforcement
      Matters and Penal Sanctions Concluded Pursuant to Section 175 (a)
      of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended;
        "(3) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands on Labor Recruitment Concluded Pursuant to Section 175
      (b) of the Compact of Free Association, as Amended;
        "(4) Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of
      United States Economic Assistance Provided in the Compact, as
      Amended, of Free Association Between the Government of the United
      States of America and the Government of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands;
        "(5) Agreement Between the Government of the United States of
      America and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands Implementing Section 216 and Section 217 of the Compact,
      as Amended, Regarding a Trust Fund;
        "(6) Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights
      of the Government of the United States in the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of
      the Compact of Free Association, as Amended; and
        "(7) Status of Forces Agreement Between the Government of the
      United States of America and the Government of the Republic of
      the Marshall Islands Concluded Pursuant to Section 323 of the
      Compact of Free Association, as Amended.

      "Section 463
      "(a) Except as set forth in subsection (b) of this section, any
    reference in this Compact, as amended, to a provision of the United
    States Code or the Statutes at Large of the United States
    constitutes the incorporation of the language of such provision
    into this Compact, as amended, as such provision was in force on
    the effective date of this Compact, as amended.
      "(b) Any reference in Articles IV and VI of Title One, and
    Sections 174, 175, 178 and 342 to a provision of the United States
    Code or the Statutes at Large of the United States or to the
    Privacy Act, the Freedom of Information Act, the Administrative
    Procedure Act or the Immigration and Nationality Act constitutes
    the incorporation of the language of such provision into this
    Compact, as amended, as such provision was in force on the
    effective date of this Compact, as amended, or as it may be amended
    thereafter on a non-discriminatory basis according to the
    constitutional processes of the United States. [As amended Pub. L.
    110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(L), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    874.]

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                          "CONCLUDING PROVISIONS                      

      "Section 471
      "Both the Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall take all necessary
    steps, of a general or particular character, to ensure, no later
    than the entry into force date of this Compact, as amended, the
    conformity of its laws, regulations and administrative procedures
    with the provisions of this Compact, as amended, or, in the case of
    subsection (d) of section 141, as soon as reasonably possible
    thereafter.

      "Section 472
      "This Compact, as amended, may be accepted, by signature or
    otherwise, by the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
      "IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized, have
    signed this Compact of Free Association, as amended, which shall
    enter into force upon the exchange of diplomatic notes by which the
    Government of the United States of America and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands inform each other about the
    fulfillment of their respective requirements for entry into force.
      "DONE at Majuro, Republic of the Marshall Islands, in duplicate,
    this thirtieth (30) day of April, 2003, each text being equally
    authentic.

    Signed (April 30, 2003)
    For the Government of the
    United States of America:

    Ambassador Michael J. Senko
    U.S. Ambassador to the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands

    Signed (April 30, 2003)
    For the Government of the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands:

    His Excellency Banny deBrum
    Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary"
      [Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(b)(2)(D)(ii), May 8, 2008,
    122 Stat. 873, which directed substitution of "Agreement Regarding
    the Military Use and Operating Rights of the Government of the
    United States in the Republic of the Marshall Islands concluded
    Pursuant to Sections 321 and 323 of the Compact of Free
    Association, as Amended (Agreement between the Government of the
    United States and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands Regarding Military Use and Operating Rights)" for
    "Agreement between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding
    Miliary Use and Operating Rights" in the first sentence of
    subsection (b) in section 211 of the Compact of Free Association,
    as amended, between the Government of the United States of America
    and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, set out
    above, was executed by making the substitution for "Agreement
    between the Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding Military Use and
    Operating Rights" to reflect the probable intent of Congress.]

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921a                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921a. Agreements with Federated States of Micronesia

-STATUTE-
    (a) Law enforcement assistance
      Pursuant to sections 222 and 224 of the U.S.-FSM Compact, the
    United States shall provide non-reimbursable technical and training
    assistance as appropriate, including training and equipment for
    postal inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to enable
    the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia to develop and
    adequately enforce laws of the Federated States of Micronesia and
    to cooperate with the United States in the enforcement of criminal
    laws of the United States. Funds appropriated pursuant to section
    1921d(j) of this title may be used to reimburse State or local
    agencies providing such assistance.
    (b) Agreement on audits
      The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized representatives)
    shall have the authorities necessary to carry out his
    responsibilities under section 232 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
    agreement referred to in section 462(b)(4) of the U.S.-FSM Compact,
    including the following authorities:
      (1) General authority of the Comptroller General to audit
        (A) The Comptroller General of the United States (and his duly
      authorized representatives) shall have the authority to audit - 
          (i) all grants, program assistance, and other assistance
        provided to the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia under Articles I and II of Title Two of the U.S.-FSM
        Compact; and
          (ii) any other assistance provided by the Government of the
        United States to the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia.

      Such authority shall include authority for the Comptroller
      General to conduct or cause to be conducted any of the audits
      provided for in section 232 of the U.S.-FSM Compact. The
      authority provided in this paragraph shall continue for at least
      three years after the last such grant has been made or assistance
      has been provided.
        (B) The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized
      representatives) shall also have authority to review any audit
      conducted by or on behalf of the Government of the United States.
      In this connection, the Comptroller General shall have access to
      such personnel and to such records, documents, working papers,
      automated data and files, and other information relevant to such
      review.
      (2) Comptroller General access to records
        (A) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller General (and
      his duly authorized representatives) shall have such access to
      the personnel and (without cost) to records, documents, working
      papers, automated data and files, and other information relevant
      to such audits. The Comptroller General may duplicate any such
      records, documents, working papers, automated data and files, or
      other information relevant to such audits.
        (B) Such records, documents, working papers, automated data and
      files, and other information regarding each such grant or other
      assistance shall be maintained for at least five years after the
      date such grant or assistance was provided and in a manner that
      permits such grants, assistance, and payments to be accounted for
      distinct from any other funds of the Government of the Federated
      States of Micronesia.
      (3) Status of Comptroller General representatives
        The Comptroller General and his duly authorized representatives
      shall be immune from civil and criminal process relating to words
      spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their
      official capacity and falling within their functions, except
      insofar as such immunity may be expressly waived by the
      Government of the United States. The Comptroller General and his
      duly authorized representatives shall not be liable to arrest or
      detention pending trial, except in the case of a grave crime and
      pursuant to a decision by a competent judicial authority, and
      such persons shall enjoy immunity from seizure of personal
      property, immigration restrictions, and laws relating to alien
      registration, fingerprinting, and the registration of foreign
      agents. Such persons shall enjoy the same taxation exemptions as
      are set forth in Article 34 of the Vienna Convention on
      Diplomatic Relations. The privileges, exemptions and immunities
      accorded under this paragraph are not for the personal benefit of
      the individuals concerned but are to safeguard the independent
      exercise of their official functions. Without prejudice to those
      privileges, exemptions and immunities, it is the duty of all such
      persons to respect the laws and regulations of the Government of
      the Federated States of Micronesia.
      (4) Audits defined
        As used in this subsection, the term "audits" includes
      financial, program, and management audits, including determining -
       
          (A) whether the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia has met the requirements set forth in the U.S.-FSM
        Compact, or any related agreement entered into under the U.S.-
        FSM Compact, regarding the purposes for which such grants and
        other assistance are to be used; and
          (B) the propriety of the financial transactions of the
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia pursuant to
        such grants or assistance.
      (5) Cooperation by Federated States of Micronesia
        The Government of the Federated States of Micronesia will
      cooperate fully with the Comptroller General of the United States
      in the conduct of such audits as the Comptroller General
      determines necessary to enable the Comptroller General to fully
      discharge his responsibilities under this joint resolution.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 102, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2725.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsec. (b)(5), is Pub. L.
    108-188, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2720, known as the Compact of
    Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which enacted this part
    and provisions set out as notes under sections 1901 and 1921 of
    this title and amended provisions set out as a note under section
    3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of
    2003 Amendment note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921b                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921b. Agreements with and other provisions related to the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands

-STATUTE-
    (a) Law enforcement assistance
      Pursuant to sections 222 and 224 of the U.S.-RMI Compact, the
    United States shall provide non-reimbursable technical and training
    assistance as appropriate, including training and equipment for
    postal inspection of illicit drugs and other contraband, to enable
    the Government of the Marshall Islands to develop and adequately
    enforce laws of the Marshall Islands and to cooperate with the
    United States in the enforcement of criminal laws of the United
    States. Funds appropriated pursuant to section 1921d(j) of this
    title may be used to reimburse State or local agencies providing
    such assistance.
    (b) Ejit
      (1) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that the President of the United States
    shall negotiate with the Government of the Marshall Islands an
    agreement whereby, without prejudice as to any claims which have
    been or may be asserted by any party as to rightful title and
    ownership of any lands on Ejit, the Government of the Marshall
    Islands shall assure that lands on Ejit used as of January 1, 1985,
    by the people of Bikini, will continue to be available without
    charge for their use, until such time as Bikini is restored and
    inhabitable and the continued use of Ejit is no longer necessary,
    unless a Marshall Islands court of competent jurisdiction finally
    determines that there are legal impediments to continued use of
    Ejit by the people of Bikini.
      (2) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that if the impediments described in
    paragraph (1) do arise, the United States will cooperate with the
    Government of the Marshall Islands in assisting any person
    adversely affected by such judicial determination to remain on
    Ejit, or in locating suitable and acceptable alternative lands for
    such person's use.
      (3) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that paragraph (1) shall not be applied in
    a manner which would prevent the Government of the Marshall Islands
    from acting in accordance with its constitutional processes to
    resolve title and ownership claims with respect to such lands or
    from taking substitute or additional measures to meet the needs of
    the people of Bikini with their democratically expressed consent
    and approval.
    (c) Section 177 Agreement
      (1) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that in furtherance of the purposes of
    Article I of the Subsidiary Agreement for Implementation of Section
    177 of the Compact, the payment of the amount specified therein
    shall be made by the United States under Article I of the Agreement
    between the Government of the United States and the Government of
    the Marshall Islands for the Implementation of Section 177 of the
    Compact (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the "Section
    177 Agreement") only after the Government of the Marshall Islands
    has notified the President of the United States as to which
    investment management firm has been selected by such Government to
    act as Fund Manager under Article I of the Section 177 Agreement.
      (2) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that in the event that the President
    determines that an investment management firm selected by the
    Government of the Marshall Islands does not meet the requirements
    specified in Article I of the Section 177 Agreement, the United
    States shall invoke the conference and dispute resolution
    procedures of Article II of Title Four of the Compact. Pending the
    resolution of such a dispute and until a qualified Fund Manager has
    been designated, the Government of the Marshall Islands shall place
    the funds paid by the United States pursuant to Article I of the
    Section 177 Agreement into an interest-bearing escrow account. Upon
    designation of a qualified Fund Manager, all funds in the escrow
    account shall be transferred to the control of such Fund Manager
    for management pursuant to the Section 177 Agreement.
      (3) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that if the Government of the Marshall
    Islands determines that some other investment firm should act as
    Fund Manager in place of the firm first (or subsequently) selected
    by such Government, the Government of the Marshall Islands shall so
    notify the President of the United States, identifying the firm
    selected by such Government to become Fund Manager, and the
    President shall proceed to evaluate the qualifications of such
    identified firm.
      (4) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that at the end of 15 years after the
    effective date of the Compact, the firm then acting as Fund Manager
    shall transfer to the Government of the Marshall Islands, or to
    such account as such Government shall so notify the Fund Manager,
    all remaining funds and assets being managed by the Fund Manager
    under the Section 177 Agreement.
    (d) Nuclear test effects
      In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
    Congress provided that in approving the Compact, the Congress
    understands and intends that the peoples of Bikini, Enewetak,
    Rongelap, and Utrik, who were affected by the United States nuclear
    weapons testing program in the Marshall Islands, will receive the
    amounts of $75,000,000 (Bikini); $48,750,000 (Enewetak);
    $37,500,000 (Rongelap); and $22,500,000 (Utrik), respectively,
    which amounts shall be paid out of proceeds from the fund
    established under Article I, section 1 of the subsidiary agreement
    for the implementation of section 177 of the Compact. The amounts
    specified in this subsection shall be in addition to any amounts
    which may be awarded to claimants pursuant to Article IV of the
    subsidiary agreement for the implementation of Section 177 of the
    Compact.
    (e) Espousal provisions
      (1) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that it is the intention of the Congress of
    the United States that the provisions of section 177 of the Compact
    of Free Association and the Agreement between the Government of the
    United States and the Government of the Marshall Islands for the
    Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact (hereafter in this
    subsection referred to as the "Section 177 Agreement") constitute a
    full and final settlement of all claims described in Articles X and
    XI of the Section 177 Agreement, and that any such claims be
    terminated and barred except insofar as provided for in the Section
    177 Agreement.
      (2) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that in furtherance of the intention of
    Congress as stated in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Section
    177 Agreement is hereby ratified and approved. It is the explicit
    understanding and intent of Congress that the jurisdictional
    limitations set forth in Article XII of such Agreement are enacted
    solely and exclusively to accomplish the objective of Article X of
    such Agreement and only as a clarification of the effect of Article
    X, and are not to be construed or implemented separately from
    Article X.
    (f) DOE radiological health care program; USDA agricultural and
      food programs
      (1) Marshall Islands program
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the request of
      the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
      President (either through an appropriate department or agency of
      the United States or by contract with a United States firm) shall
      continue to provide special medical care and logistical support
      thereto for the remaining members of the population of Rongelap
      and Utrik who were exposed to radiation resulting from the 1954
      United States thermo-nuclear "Bravo" test, pursuant to Public
      Laws 95-134 and 96-205.
      (2) Agricultural and food programs
        (A) In general
          In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
        239) Congress provided that notwithstanding any other
        provision of law, upon the request of the Government of the
        Marshall Islands, for the first fifteen years after the
        effective date of the Compact, the President (either through an
        appropriate department or agency of the United States or by
        contract with a United States firm or by a grant to the
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands which may
        further contract only with a United States firm or a Republic
        of the Marshall Islands firm, the owners, officers and majority
        of the employees of which are citizens of the United States or
        the Republic of the Marshall Islands) shall provide technical
        and other assistance - 
            (i) without reimbursement, to continue the planting and
          agricultural maintenance program on Enewetak, as provided in
          subparagraph (C); and
            (ii) without reimbursement, to continue the food programs
          of the Bikini and Enewetak people described in section 1(d)
          of Article II of the Subsidiary Agreement for the
          Implementation of Section 177 of the Compact and for
          continued waterborne transportation of agricultural products
          to Enewetak including operations and maintenance of the
          vessel used for such purposes.
        (B) Population changes
          The President shall ensure the assistance provided under
        these programs reflects the changes in the population since the
        inception of such programs.
        (C) Planting and agricultural maintenance program
          (i) In general
            The planting and agricultural maintenance program on
          Enewetak shall be funded at a level of not less than
          $1,300,000 per year, as adjusted for inflation under section
          218 of the U.S.-RMI Compact.
          (ii) Authorization and continuing appropriation
            There is hereby authorized and appropriated to the
          Secretary of the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury
          not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until
          expended, for each fiscal year from 2004 through 2023,
          $1,300,000, as adjusted for inflation under section 218 of
          the U.S.-RMI Compact, for grants to carry out the planting
          and agricultural maintenance program.
      (3) Payments
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that payments under this subsection shall be
      provided to such extent or in such amounts as are necessary for
      services and other assistance provided pursuant to this
      subsection. It is the sense of Congress that after the periods of
      time specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection,
      consideration will be given to such additional funding for these
      programs as may be necessary.
    (g) Rongelap
      (1) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that because Rongelap was directly affected
    by fallout from a 1954 United States thermonuclear test and because
    the Rongelap people remain unconvinced that it is safe to continue
    to live on Rongelap Island, it is the intent of Congress to take
    such steps (if any) as may be necessary to overcome the effects of
    such fallout on the habitability of Rongelap Island, and to restore
    Rongelap Island, if necessary, so that it can be safely inhabited.
    Accordingly, it is the expectation of the Congress that the
    Government of the Marshall Islands shall use such portion of the
    funds specified in Article II, section 1(e) of the subsidiary
    agreement for the implementation of section 177 of the Compact as
    are necessary for the purpose of contracting with a qualified
    scientist or group of scientists to review the data collected by
    the Department of Energy relating to radiation levels and other
    conditions on Rongelap Island resulting from the thermonuclear
    test. It is the expectation of the Congress that the Government of
    the Marshall Islands, after consultation with the people of
    Rongelap, shall select the party to review such data, and shall
    contract for such review and for submission of a report to the
    President of the United States and the Congress as to the results
    thereof.
      (2) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that the purpose of the review referred to
    in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be to establish whether
    the data cited in support of the conclusions as to the habitability
    of Rongelap Island, as set forth in the Department of Energy report
    entitled: "The Meaning of Radiation for Those Atolls in the
    Northern Part of the Marshall Islands That Were Surveyed in 1978",
    dated November 1982, are adequate and whether such conclusions are
    fully supported by the data. If the party reviewing the data
    concludes that such conclusions as to habitability are fully
    supported by adequate data, the report to the President of the
    United States and the Congress shall so state. If the party
    reviewing the data concludes that the data are inadequate to
    support such conclusions as to habitability or that such
    conclusions as to habitability are not fully supported by the data,
    the Government of the Marshall Islands shall contract with an
    appropriate scientist or group of scientists to undertake a
    complete survey of radiation and other effects of the nuclear
    testing program relating to the habitability of Rongelap Island.
    Such sums as are necessary for such survey and report concerning
    the results thereof and as to steps needed to restore the
    habitability of Rongelap Island are authorized to be made available
    to the Government of the Marshall Islands.
      (3) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that it is the intent of Congress that such
    steps (if any) as are necessary to restore the habitability of
    Rongelap Island and return the Rongelap people to their homeland
    will be taken by the United States in consultation with the
    Government of the Marshall Islands and, in accordance with its
    authority under the Constitution of the Marshall Islands, the
    Rongelap local government council.
      (4) There are hereby authorized and appropriated to the Secretary
    of the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise
    appropriated, to remain available until expended, for fiscal year
    2005, $1,780,000; for fiscal year 2006, $1,760,000; and for fiscal
    year 2007, $1,760,000, as the final contributions of the United
    States to the Rongelap Resettlement Trust Fund as established
    pursuant to Public Law 102-154 (105 Stat. 1009), for the purposes
    of establishing a food importation program as a part of the overall
    resettlement program of Rongelap Island.
    (h) Four atoll health care program
      (1) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that services provided by the United States
    Public Health Service or any other United States agency pursuant to
    section 1(a) of Article II of the Agreement for the Implementation
    of Section 177 of the Compact (hereafter in this subsection
    referred to as the "Section 177 Agreement") shall be only for
    services to the people of the Atolls of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap,
    and Utrik who were affected by the consequences of the United
    States nuclear testing program, pursuant to the program described
    in Public Law 95-134 (91 Stat. 1159) and Public Law 96-205 (94
    Stat. 84) and their descendants (and any other persons identified
    as having been so affected if such identification occurs in the
    manner described in such public laws). Nothing in this subsection
    shall be construed as prejudicial to the views or policies of the
    Government of the Marshall Islands as to the persons affected by
    the consequences of the United States nuclear testing program.
      (2) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that at the end of the first year after the
    effective date of the Compact and at the end of each year
    thereafter, the providing agency or agencies shall return to the
    Government of the Marshall Islands any unexpended funds to be
    returned to the Fund Manager (as described in Article I of the
    Section 177 Agreement) to be covered into the Fund to be available
    for future use.
      (3) In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) Congress provided that the Fund Manager shall retain the
    funds returned by the Government of the Marshall Islands pursuant
    to paragraph (2) of this subsection, shall invest and manage such
    funds, and at the end of 15 years after the effective date of the
    Compact, shall make from the total amount so retained and the
    proceeds thereof annual disbursements sufficient to continue to
    make payments for the provision of health services as specified in
    paragraph (1) of this subsection to such extent as may be provided
    in contracts between the Government of the Marshall Islands and
    appropriate United States providers of such health services.
    (i) Enjebi Community Trust Fund
      In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
    Congress provided that notwithstanding any other provision of law,
    the Secretary of the Treasury shall establish on the books of the
    Treasury of the United States a fund having the status specified in
    Article V of the subsidiary agreement for the implementation of
    Section 177 of the Compact, to be known as the "Enjebi Community
    Trust Fund" (hereafter in this subsection referred to as the
    "Fund"), and shall credit to the Fund the amount of $7,500,000.
    Such amount, which shall be ex gratia, shall be in addition to and
    not charged against any other funds provided for in the Compact and
    its subsidiary agreements, this joint resolution, or any other Act.
    Upon receipt by the President of the United States of the agreement
    described in this subsection, the Secretary of the Treasury, upon
    request of the Government of the Marshall Islands, shall transfer
    the Fund to the Government of the Marshall Islands, provided that
    the Government of the Marshall Islands agrees as follows:
      (1) Enjebi trust agreement
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that the Government of the Marshall Islands and
      the Enewetak Local Government Council, in consultation with the
      people of Enjebi, shall provide for the creation of the Enjebi
      Community Trust Fund and the employment of the manager of the
      Enewetak Fund established pursuant to the Section 177 Agreement
      as trustee and manager of the Enjebi Community Trust Fund, or,
      should the manager of the Enewetak Fund not be acceptable to the
      people of Enjebi, another United States investment manager with
      substantial experience in the administration of trusts and with
      funds under management in excess of $250,000,000.
      (2) Monitor conditions
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that upon the request of the Government of the
      Marshall Islands, the United States shall monitor the radiation
      and other conditions on Enjebi and within one year of receiving
      such a request shall report to the Government of the Marshall
      Islands when the people of Enjebi may resettle Enjebi under
      circumstances where the radioactive contamination at Enjebi,
      including contamination derived from consumption of locally grown
      food products, can be reduced or otherwise controlled to meet
      whole body Federal radiation protection standards for the general
      population, including mean annual dose and mean 30-year
      cumulative dose standards.
      (3) Resettlement of Enjebi
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that in the event that the United States
      determines that the people of Enjebi can within 25 years of
      January 14, 1986, resettle Enjebi under the conditions set forth
      in paragraph (2) of this subsection, then upon such determination
      there shall be available to the people of Enjebi from the Fund
      such amounts as are necessary for the people of Enjebi to do the
      following, in accordance with a plan developed by the Enewetak
      Local Government Council and the people of Enjebi, and concurred
      with by the Government of the Marshall Islands to assure
      consistency with the government's overall economic development
      plan:
          (A) Establish a community on Enjebi Island for the use of the
        people of Enjebi.
          (B) Replant Enjebi with appropriate food-bearing and other
        vegetation.
      (4) Resettlement of other location
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that in the event that the United States
      determines that within 25 years of January 14, 1986, the people
      of Enjebi cannot resettle Enjebi without exceeding the radiation
      standards set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection, then the
      fund manager shall be directed by the trust instrument to
      distribute the Fund to the people of Enjebi for their
      resettlement at some other location in accordance with a plan,
      developed by the Enewetak Local Government Council and the people
      of Enjebi and concurred with by the Government of the Marshall
      Islands, to assure consistency with the government's overall
      economic development plan.
      (5) Interest from Fund
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that prior to and during the distribution of
      the corpus of the Fund pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4) of this
      subsection, the people of Enjebi may, if they so request, receive
      the interest earned by the Fund on no less frequent a basis than
      quarterly.
      (6) Disclaimer of liability
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      Congress provided that neither under the laws of the Marshall
      Islands nor under the laws of the United States, shall the
      Government of the United States be liable for any loss or damage
      to person or property in respect to the resettlement of Enjebi by
      the people of Enjebi, pursuant to the provision of this
      subsection or otherwise.
    (j) Bikini Atoll cleanup
      (1) Declaration of policy
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
      239), the Congress determined and declared that it is the policy
      of the United States, to be supported by the full faith and
      credit of the United States, that because the United States,
      through its nuclear testing and other activities, rendered Bikini
      Atoll unsafe for habitation by the people of Bikini, the United
      States will fulfill its responsibility for restoring Bikini Atoll
      to habitability, as set forth in paragraph (2) and (3) of this
      subsection.
      (2) Cleanup funds
        The joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      authorized to be appropriated such sums as necessary to implement
      the settlement agreement of March 15, 1985, in The People of
      Bikini, et al. against United States of America, et al., Civ. No.
      84-0425 (D. Ha.).
      (3) Conditions of funding
        In the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
      the Congress provided that the funds referred to in paragraph (2)
      were to be made available pursuant to Article VI, Section 1 of
      the Compact Section 177 Agreement upon completion of the events
      set forth in the settlement agreement referred to in paragraph
      (2) of this subsection.
    (k) Agreement on audits
      The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized representatives)
    shall have the authorities necessary to carry out his
    responsibilities under section 232 of the U.S.-RMI Compact and the
    agreement referred to in section 462(b)(4) of the U.S.-RMI Compact,
    including the following authorities:
      (1) General authority of the Comptroller General to audit
        (A) The Comptroller General of the United States (and his duly
      authorized representatives) shall have the authority to audit - 
          (i) all grants, program assistance, and other assistance
        provided to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
        Islands under Articles I and II of Title Two of the U.S.-RMI
        Compact; and
          (ii) any other assistance provided by the Government of the
        United States to the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
        Islands.

      Such authority shall include authority for the Comptroller
      General to conduct or cause to be conducted any of the audits
      provided for in section 232 of the U.S.-RMI Compact. The
      authority provided in this paragraph shall continue for at least
      three years after the last such grant has been made or assistance
      has been provided.
        (B) The Comptroller General (and his duly authorized
      representatives) shall also have authority to review any audit
      conducted by or on behalf of the Government of the United States.
      In this connection, the Comptroller General shall have access to
      such personnel and to such records, documents, working papers,
      automated data and files, and other information relevant to such
      review.
      (2) Comptroller General access to records
        (A) In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller General (and
      his duly authorized representatives) shall have such access to
      the personnel and (without cost) to records, documents, working
      papers, automated data and files, and other information relevant
      to such audits. The Comptroller General may duplicate any such
      records, documents, working papers, automated data and files, or
      other information relevant to such audits.
        (B) Such records, documents, working papers, automated data and
      files, and other information regarding each such grant or other
      assistance shall be maintained for at least five years after the
      date such grant or assistance was provided and in a manner that
      permits such grants, assistance and payments to be accounted for
      distinct from any other funds of the Government of the Republic
      of the Marshall Islands.
      (3) Status of Comptroller General representatives
        The Comptroller General and his duly authorized representatives
      shall be immune from civil and criminal process relating to words
      spoken or written and all acts performed by them in their
      official capacity and falling within their functions, except
      insofar as such immunity may be expressly waived by the
      Government of the United States. The Comptroller General and his
      duly authorized representatives shall not be liable to arrest or
      detention pending trial, except in the case of a grave crime and
      pursuant to a decision by a competent judicial authority, and
      such persons shall enjoy immunity from seizure of personal
      property, immigration restrictions, and laws relating to alien
      registration, fingerprinting, and the registration of foreign
      agents. Such persons shall enjoy the same taxation exemptions as
      are set forth in Article 34 of the Vienna Convention on
      Diplomatic Relations. The privileges, exemptions and immunities
      accorded under this paragraph are not for the personal benefit of
      the individuals concerned but are to safeguard the independent
      exercise of their official functions. Without prejudice to those
      privileges, exemptions and immunities, it is the duty of all such
      persons to respect the laws and regulations of the Government of
      the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
      (4) Audits defined
        As used in this subsection, the term "audits" includes
      financial, program, and management audits, including determining -
       
          (A) whether the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
        Islands has met the requirements set forth in the U.S.-RMI
        Compact, or any related agreement entered into under the U.S.-
        RMI Compact, regarding the purposes for which such grants and
        other assistance are to be used; and
          (B) the propriety of the financial transactions of the
        Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to
        such grants or assistance.
      (5) Cooperation by the Republic of the Marshall Islands
        The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands will
      cooperate fully with the Comptroller General of the United States
      in the conduct of such audits as the Comptroller General
      determines necessary to enable the Comptroller General to fully
      discharge his responsibilities under this joint resolution.
    (l) Kwajalein
      (1) Statement of policy
        It is the policy of the United States that payment of funds by
      the Government of the Marshall Islands to the landowners of
      Kwajalein Atoll in accordance with the land use agreement dated
      October 19, 1982, or as amended or superseded, and any related
      allocation agreements, is required in order to ensure that the
      Government of the United States will be able to fulfill its
      obligation and responsibilities under Title Three of the U.S.-RMI
      Compact and the subsidiary agreements concluded pursuant to the
      U.S.-RMI Compact.
      (2) Failure to pay
        (A) In general
          If the Government of the Marshall Islands fails to make
        payments in accordance with paragraph (1), the Government of
        the United States shall initiate procedures under section 313
        of the U.S.-RMI Compact and consult with the Government of the
        Marshall Islands with respect to the basis for the nonpayment
        of funds.
        (B) Resolution
          The United States shall expeditiously resolve the matter of
        any nonpayment of funds required under paragraph (1) pursuant
        to section 313 of the U.S.-RMI Compact and the authority and
        responsibility of the Government of the United States for
        security and defense matters in or relating to the Marshall
        Islands. This paragraph shall be enforced, as may be necessary,
        in accordance with section 1921d(e) of this title.
      (3) Disposition of increased payments pending new land use
        agreement
        Until such time as the Government of the Marshall Islands and
      the landowners of Kwajalein Atoll have concluded an agreement
      amending or superseding the land use agreement reflecting the
      terms of and consistent with the Military Use Operating Rights
      Agreement dated October 19, 1982, any amounts paid by the United
      States to the Government of the Marshall Islands in excess of the
      amounts required to be paid pursuant to the land use agreement
      dated October 19, 1982, shall be paid into, and held in, an
      interest bearing escrow account in a United States financial
      institution by the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands. At such time, the funds and interest held in escrow
      shall be paid to the landowners of Kwajalein in accordance with
      the new land use agreement. If no such agreement is concluded by
      the date which is five years after December 17, 2003, then such
      funds and interest shall, unless otherwise mutually agreed
      between the Government of the United States of America and the
      Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, be returned
      to the U.S. Treasury.
      (4) Notifications and report
        (A) The Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
      shall notify the Government of the United States of America when
      an agreement amending or superseding the land use agreement dated
      October 19, 1982, is concluded.
        (B) If no agreement amending or superseding the land use
      agreement dated October 19, 1982 is concluded by the date five
      years after December 17, 2003, then the President shall report to
      Congress on the intentions of the United States with respect to
      the use of Kwajalein Atoll after 2016, on any plans to relocate
      activities carried out on Kwajalein Atoll, and on the disposition
      of the funds and interest held in escrow under paragraph (3).
      (5) Assistance
        The President is authorized to make loans and grants to the
      Government of the Marshall Islands to address the special needs
      of the community at Ebeye, Kwajalein Atoll, and other Marshallese
      communities within the Kwajalein Atoll, pursuant to development
      plans adopted in accordance with applicable laws of the Marshall
      Islands. The loans and grants shall be subject to such other
      terms and conditions as the President, in the discretion of the
      President, may determine are appropriate.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 103, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2727;
    Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(a)(1), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    871.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239),
    referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat.
    1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free Association Act of
    1985, which is classified principally to part A of this subchapter
    and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set
    out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.
      Public Law 95-134, referred to in subsecs. (f)(1) and (h)(1), is
    Pub. L. 95-134, Oct. 15, 1977, 91 Stat. 1159, as amended, popularly
    known as the Omnibus Territories Act of 1977. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 96-205, referred to in subsecs. (f)(1) and (h)(1), is
    Pub. L. 96-205, Mar. 12, 1980, 94 Stat. 84, as amended. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 102-154, referred to in subsec. (g)(4), is Pub. L. 102-
    154, Nov. 13, 1991, 105 Stat. 990, as amended, known as the
    Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
    1992. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Tables.
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsecs. (i) and (k)(5), is
    Pub. L. 108-188, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2720, known as the
    Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which enacted
    this part and provisions set out as notes under sections 1901 and
    1921 of this title and amended provisions set out as a note under
    section 3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of
    2003 Amendment note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 110-229 substituted "Marshall
    Islands for the Implementation of Section 177" for "Marshall
    Islands for the Implementation of section 177".

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921c                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921c. Interpretation of and United States policy regarding
      U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-RMI Compact

-STATUTE-
    (a) Human rights
      In approving the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact,
    Congress notes the conclusion in the Statement of Intent of the
    Report of The Future Political Status Commission of the Congress of
    Micronesia in July, 1969, that "our recommendation of a free
    associated state is indissolubly linked to our desire for such a
    democratic, representative, constitutional government" and notes
    that such desire and intention are reaffirmed and embodied in the
    Constitutions of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands. Congress also notes and
    specifically endorses the preamble to the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
    U.S.-RMI Compact, which affirms that the governments of the parties
    to the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact are founded upon
    respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. The
    Secretary of State shall include in the annual reports on the
    status of internationally recognized human rights in foreign
    countries, which are submitted to Congress pursuant to sections
    2151n and 2304 of title 22, a full and complete report regarding
    the status of internationally recognized human rights in the
    Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands.
    (b) Immigration and passport security
      (1) Naturalized citizens
        The rights of a bona fide naturalized citizen of the Federated
      States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall Islands to
      enter the United States, to lawfully engage therein in
      occupations, and to establish residence therein as a
      nonimmigrant, to the extent such rights are provided under
      section 141 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact,
      shall not be deemed to extend to any such naturalized citizen
      with respect to whom circumstances associated with the
      acquisition of the status of a naturalized citizen are such as to
      allow a reasonable inference, on the part of appropriate
      officials of the United States and subject to United States
      procedural requirements, that such naturalized status was
      acquired primarily in order to obtain such rights.
      (2) Passports
        It is the sense of Congress that up to $250,000 of the grant
      assistance provided to the Federated States of Micronesia
      pursuant to section 211(a)(4) of the U.S.-FSM Compact, and up to
      $250,000 of the grant assistance provided to the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands pursuant to section 211(a)(4) of the U.S.-RMI
      Compact (or a greater amount of the section 211(a)(4) grant, if
      mutually agreed between the Government of the United States and
      the government of the Federated States of Micronesia or the
      government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands), be used for
      the purpose of increasing the machine-readability and security of
      passports issued by such jurisdictions. It is further the sense
      of Congress that such funds be obligated by September 30, 2004
      and in the amount and manner specified by the Secretary of State
      in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and,
      respectively, with the government of the Federated States of
      Micronesia and the government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands. The United States Government is authorized to require
      that passports used for the purpose of seeking admission under
      section 141 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact
      contain the security enhancements funded by such assistance.
      (3) Information-sharing
        It is the sense of Congress that the governments of the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands develop, prior to October 1, 2004, the capability to
      provide reliable and timely information as may reasonably be
      required by the Government of the United States in enforcing
      criminal and security-related grounds of inadmissibility and
      deportability under the Immigration and Nationality Act, as
      amended [8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.], and shall provide such
      information to the Government of the United States.
      (4) Transition; construction of sections 141(a)(3) and 141(a)(4)
        of the U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-RMI Compact
        The words "the effective date of this Compact, as amended" in
      sections 141(a)(3) and 141(a)(4) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
      U.S.-RMI Compact shall be construed to read, "on the day prior to
      the enactment by the United States Congress of the Compact of
      Free Association Amendments Act of 2003.".
    (c) Nonalienation of lands
      Congress endorses and encourages the maintenance of the policies
    of the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands to regulate, in
    accordance with their Constitutions and laws, the alienation of
    permanent interests in real property so as to restrict the
    acquisition of such interests to persons of Federated States of
    Micronesia citizenship and the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    citizenship, respectively.
    (d) Nuclear waste disposal
      In approving the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact,
    Congress understands that the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands will not permit any other government or any nongovernmental
    party to conduct, in the Republic of the Marshall Islands or in the
    Federated States of Micronesia, any of the activities specified in
    subsection (a) of section 314 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-
    RMI Compact.
    (e) Impact of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact on the
      State of Hawaii, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
      Islands and American Samoa; related authorization and continuing
      appropriation
      (1) Statement of congressional intent
        In reauthorizing the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact,
      it is not the intent of Congress to cause any adverse
      consequences for an affected jurisdiction.
      (2) Definitions
        For the purposes of this part - 
          (A) the term "affected jurisdiction" means American Samoa,
        Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or the
        State of Hawaii; and
          (B) the term "qualified nonimmigrant" means a person, or
        their children under the age of 18, admitted or resident
        pursuant to section 141 of the U.S.-RMI or U.S.-FSM Compact, or
        section 141 of the Palau Compact who, as of a date referenced
        in the most recently published enumeration is a resident of an
        affected jurisdiction. As used in this subsection, the term
        "resident" shall be a person who has a "residence," as that
        term is defined in section 101(a)(33) of the Immigration and
        Nationality Act, as amended [8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(33)].
      (3) Authorization and continuing appropriation
        There is hereby authorized and appropriated to the Secretary of
      the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise
      appropriated, to remain available until expended, for each fiscal
      year from 2004 through 2023, $30,000,000 for grants to affected
      jurisdictions to aid in defraying costs incurred by affected
      jurisdictions as a result of increased demands placed on health,
      educational, social, or public safety services or infrastructure
      related to such services due to the residence in affected
      jurisdictions of qualified nonimmigrants from the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the
      Republic of Palau. The grants shall be - 
          (A) awarded and administered by the Department of the
        Interior, Office of Insular Affairs, or any successor thereto,
        in accordance with regulations, policies and procedures
        applicable to grants so awarded and administered; and
          (B) used only for health, educational, social, or public
        safety services, or infrastructure related to such services,
        specifically affected by qualified nonimmigrants.
      (4) Enumeration
        The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct periodic
      enumerations of qualified nonimmigrants in each affected
      jurisdiction. The enumerations - 
          (A) shall be conducted at such intervals as the Secretary of
        the Interior shall determine, but no less frequently than every
        five years, beginning in fiscal year 2003;
          (B) shall be supervised by the United States Bureau of the
        Census or such other organization as the Secretary of the
        Interior may select; and
          (C) after fiscal year 2003, shall be funded by the Secretary
        of the Interior by deducting such sums as are necessary, but
        not to exceed $300,000 as adjusted for inflation pursuant to
        section 217 of the U.S.-FSM Compact with fiscal year 2003 as
        the base year, per enumeration, from funds appropriated
        pursuant to the authorization contained in paragraph (3) of
        this subsection.
      (5) Allocation
        The Secretary of the Interior shall allocate to the government
      of each affected jurisdiction, on the basis of the results of the
      most recent enumeration, grants in an aggregate amount equal to
      the total amount of funds appropriated under paragraph (3) of
      this subsection, as reduced by any deductions authorized by
      subparagraph (C) of paragraph (4) of this subsection, multiplied
      by a ratio derived by dividing the number of qualified
      nonimmigrants in such affected jurisdiction by the total number
      of qualified nonimmigrants in all affected jurisdictions.
      (6) Authorization for health care reimbursement
        There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
      of the Interior such sums as may be necessary to reimburse health
      care institutions in the affected jurisdictions for costs
      resulting from the migration of citizens of the Republic of the
      Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Republic of Palau to the affected jurisdictions as a result of
      the implementation of the Compact of Free Association, approved
      by Public Law 99-239, or the approval of the U.S.-FSM Compact and
      the U.S.-RMI Compact by this resolution.
      (7) Use of DOD medical facilities and National Health Service
        Corps
        (A) DOD medical facilities
          The Secretary of Defense shall make available, on a space
        available and reimbursable basis, the medical facilities of the
        Department of Defense for use by citizens of the Federated
        States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands
        who are properly referred to the facilities by government
        authorities responsible for provision of medical services in
        the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the
        Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau and the affected
        jurisdictions.
        (B) National Health Service Corps
          The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall continue to
        make the services of the National Health Service Corps
        available to the residents of the Federated States of
        Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands to the same
        extent and for so long as such services are authorized to be
        provided to persons residing in any other areas within or
        outside the United States.
        (C) Authorization of appropriations
          There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
        paragraph such sums as are necessary for each fiscal year.
      (8) Reporting requirement
        Not later than one year after December 17, 2003, and at one
      year intervals thereafter, the Governors of Guam, the State of
      Hawaii, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and
      American Samoa may provide to the Secretary of the Interior by
      February 1 of each year their comments with respect to the
      impacts of the Compacts on their respective jurisdiction. The
      Secretary of the Interior, upon receipt of any such comments,
      shall report to the Congress not later than May 1 of each year
      and include the following:
          (A) The Governor's comments on the impacts of the Compacts as
        well as the Administration's analysis of such impact.
          (B) The Administration views on any recommendations for
        corrective action to eliminate those consequences as proposed
        by such Governors.
          (C) With regard to immigration, statistics concerning the
        number of persons availing themselves of the rights described
        in section 141(a) of the Compact during the year covered by
        each report.
          (D) With regard to trade, an analysis of the impact on the
        economy of American Samoa resulting from imports of canned tuna
        into the United States from the Federated States of Micronesia,
        and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
      (9) Reconciliation of unreimbursed impact expenses
        (A) In general
          Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President, to
        address previously accrued and unreimbursed impact expenses,
        may, at the request of the Governor of Guam or the Governor of
        the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, reduce,
        release, or waive all or part of any amounts owed by the
        Government of Guam or the Government of the Commonwealth of the
        Northern Mariana Islands (or either government's autonomous
        agencies or instrumentalities), respectively, to any
        department, agency, independent agency, office, or
        instrumentality of the United States.
        (B) Terms and conditions
          (i) Substantiation of impact costs
            Not later than 120 days after December 17, 2003, the
          Governor of Guam and the Governor of the Commonwealth of the
          Northern Mariana Islands shall each submit to the Secretary
          of the Interior a report, prepared in consultation with an
          independent accounting firm, substantiating unreimbursed
          impact expenses claimed for the period from January 14, 1986,
          through September 30, 2003. Upon request of the Secretary of
          the Interior, the Governor of Guam and the Governor of the
          Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall submit to
          the Secretary of the Interior copies of all documents upon
          which the report submitted by that Governor under this clause
          was based.
          (ii) Congressional notification
            The President shall notify Congress of his intent to
          exercise the authority granted in subparagraph (A).
          (iii) Congressional review and comment
            Any reduction, release, or waiver under this Act shall not
          take effect until 60 days after the President notifies
          Congress of his intent to approve a request of the Governor
          of Guam or the Governor of the Commonwealth of the Northern
          Mariana Islands. In exercising his authority under this
          section and in determining whether to give final approval to
          a request, the President shall take into consideration
          comments he may receive after Congressional review.
          (iv) Expiration
            The authority granted in subparagraph (A) shall expire on
          February 28, 2005.
      (10) Authorization of appropriations for grants
        There are hereby authorized to the Secretary of the Interior
      for each of fiscal years 2004 through 2023 such sums as may be
      necessary for grants to the governments of Guam, the State of
      Hawaii, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and
      American Samoa, as a result of increased demands placed on
      educational, social, or public safety services or infrastructure
      related to such services due to the presence in Guam, Hawaii, the
      Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa
      of qualified nonimmigrants from the Federated States of
      Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
      Republic of Palau.
    (f) Foreign loans
      Congress hereby reaffirms the United States position that the
    United States Government is not responsible for foreign loans or
    debt obtained by the Governments of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.
    (g) Sense of Congress concerning funding of public infrastructure
      It is the sense of Congress that not less than 30 percent of the
    United States annual grant assistance provided under section 211 of
    the Compact of Free Association, as amended, between the Government
    of the United States of America and the Government of the Federated
    States of Micronesia, and not less than 30 percent of the total
    amount of section 211 funds allocated to each of the States of the
    Federated States of Micronesia, shall be invested in infrastructure
    improvements and maintenance in accordance with section 211(a)(6).
    It is further the sense of Congress that not less than 30 percent
    of the United States annual grant assistance provided under section
    211 of the Compact of Free Association, as amended, between the
    Government of the United States of America and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, shall be invested in
    infrastructure improvements and maintenance in accordance with
    section 211(d).
    (h) Reports and reviews
      (1) Report by the President
        Not later than the end of the first full calendar year
      following enactment of this resolution, and not later than
      December 31 of each year thereafter, the President shall report
      to Congress regarding the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands, including but not limited to - 
          (A) general social, political, and economic conditions,
        including estimates of economic growth, per capita income, and
        migration rates;
          (B) the use and effectiveness of United States financial,
        program, and technical assistance;
          (C) the status of economic policy reforms including but not
        limited to progress toward establishing self-sufficient tax
        rates;
          (D) the status of the efforts to increase investment
        including: the rate of infrastructure investment of U.S.
        financial assistance under the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-
        RMI Compact; non-U.S. contributions to the trust funds, and
        the level of private investment; and
          (E) recommendations on ways to increase the effectiveness of
        United States assistance and to meet overall economic
        performance objectives, including, if appropriate,
        recommendations to Congress to adjust the inflation rate or to
        adjust the contributions to the Trust Funds based on non-U.S.
        contributions.
      (2) Review
        During the year of the fifth, tenth, and fifteenth
      anniversaries of December 17, 2003, the Government of the United
      States shall review the terms of the respective Compacts and
      consider the overall nature and development of the U.S.-FSM and
      U.S.-RMI relationships including the topics set forth in
      subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1). In conducting the
      reviews, the Government of the United States shall consider the
      operating requirements of the Government of the Federated States
      of Micronesia and the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands and their progress in meeting the development objectives
      set forth in their respective development plans. The President
      shall include in the annual reports to Congress for the years
      following the reviews the comments of the Government of the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Government of the Republic
      of the Marshall Islands on the topics described in this
      paragraph, the President's response to the comments, the findings
      resulting from the reviews, and any recommendations for actions
      to respond to such findings.
    (i) Construction of section 141(f)
      Section 141(f)(2) of the Compact of Free Association, as amended,
    between the Government of the United States of America and the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia and of the Compact
    of Free Association, as amended, between the Government of the
    United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands, shall be construed as though, after "may by
    regulations prescribe", there were included the following: ",
    except that any such regulations that would have a significant
    effect on the admission, stay and employment privileges provided
    under this section shall not become effective until 90 days after
    the date of transmission of the regulations to the Committee on
    Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on the Judiciary of
    the Senate and the Committee on Resources, the Committee on
    International Relations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the
    House of Representatives".
    (j) Inflation adjustment
      As of Fiscal Year 2015, if the United States Gross Domestic
    Product Implicit Price Deflator average for Fiscal Years 2009
    through 2013 is greater than United States Gross Domestic Product
    Implicit Price Deflator average for Fiscal Years 2004 through 2008
    (as reported in the Survey of Current Business or subsequent
    publication and compiled by the Department of the Interior), then
    section 217 of the U.S.-FSM Compact, paragraph 5 of Article II of
    the U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement, section 218 of the U.S.-
    RMI Compact, and paragraph 5 of Article II of the U.S.-RMI Fiscal
    Procedures Agreement shall be construed as if "the full" appeared
    in place of "two-thirds of the" each place those words appear. If
    an inflation adjustment is made under this subsection, the base
    year for calculating the inflation adjustment shall be fiscal year
    2014.
    (k) Participation by secondary schools in the Armed Services
      Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) Student Testing Program
      In furtherance of the provisions of Title Three, Article IV,
    Section 341 of the U.S.-FSM and the U.S.-RMI Compacts, the purpose
    of which is to establish the privilege to volunteer for service in
    the U.S. Armed Forces, it is the sense of Congress that, to
    facilitate eligibility of FSM and RMI secondary school students to
    qualify for such service, the Department of Defense may extend the
    Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) Student Testing
    Program (STP) and the ASVAB Career Exploration Program to selected
    secondary Schools in the FSM and the RMI to the extent such
    programs are available to Department of Defense Dependent Schools
    located in foreign jurisdictions.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 104, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2737;
    Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 806(a)(2), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    871; Pub. L. 111-68, div. A, title I, Sec. 1501(c), Oct. 1, 2009,
    123 Stat. 2041.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Immigration and Nationality Act, referred to in subsec.
    (b)(3), is act June 27, 1952, ch. 477, 66 Stat. 163, as amended,
    which is classified principally to chapter 12 (Sec. 1101 et seq.)
    of Title 8, Aliens and Nationality. For complete classification of
    this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1101 of Title 8 and Tables.
      The enactment by the United States Congress of the Compact of
    Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, referred to in subsec.
    (b)(4), is the enactment of Pub. L. 108-188, which was approved
    Dec. 17, 2003.
      The Palau Compact, referred to in subsec. (e)(2)(B), probably
    means the Compact of Free Association between the United States and
    the Government of Palau, which is contained in section 201 of Pub.
    L. 99-658, set out as a note under section 1931 of this title.
      The Compact of Free Association, approved by Public Law 99-239,
    referred to in subsec. (e)(6), is the Compact of Free Association
    between the Governments of the Marshall Islands and the Federated
    States of Micronesia, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L.
    99-239, as amended, set out as a note under section 1901 of this
    title.
      This resolution, referred to in subsec. (e)(6), and this Act,
    referred to in subsec. (e)(9)(B)(iii), are references to Pub. L.
    108-188, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2720, known as the Compact of
    Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which enacted this part
    and provisions set out as notes under sections 1901 and 1921 of
    this title and amended provisions set out as a note under section
    3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and Employees. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of
    2003 Amendment note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended, between the
    Government of the United States of America and the Government of
    the Federated States of Micronesia, referred to in subsecs. (g) and
    (i), is contained in section 201(a) of Pub. L. 108-188, set out as
    a note under section 1921 of this title.
      The Compact of Free Association, as amended, between the
    Government of the United States of America and the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, referred to in subsecs. (g)
    and (i), is contained in section 201(b) of Pub. L. 108-188, set out
    as a note under section 1921 of this title.
      The enactment of this resolution, referred to in subsec. (h)(1),
    is the enactment of Pub. L. 108-188, which was approved Dec. 17,
    2003.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2009 - Subsec. (h)(3). Pub. L. 111-68 struck out par. (3). Text
    read as follows: "Not later than the date that is three years after
    December 17, 2003, and every 5 years thereafter, the Comptroller
    General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on
    the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands including the topics set forth in paragraphs (1) (A)
    through (E) above, and on the effectiveness of administrative
    oversight by the United States."
      2008 - Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(2)(A),
    inserted "the" before "U.S.-RMI Compact,".
      Subsec. (e)(8). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(2)(B)(i),
    substituted "and include" for "to include" in introductory
    provisions.
      Subsec. (e)(9)(A). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(2)(B)(ii),
    inserted a comma after "impact expenses, may".
      Subsec. (e)(10). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(2)(B)(iii),
    substituted "related to such services" for "related to service".
      Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(2)(C), inserted "the"
    before "Interior),".

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Resources of House of Representatives changed to
    Committee on Natural Resources of House of Representatives and
    Committee on International Relations of House of Representatives
    changed to Committee on Foreign Affairs of House of Representatives
    by House Resolution No. 6, One Hundred Tenth Congress, Jan. 5,
    2007.


-EXEC-
                     ASSIGNMENT OF REPORTING FUNCTIONS                 
      Memorandum of President of the United States, July 21, 2005, 70
    F.R. 43249, provided:
      Memorandum for the Secretary of the Interior
      By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
    the laws of the United States, including section 301 of title 3,
    United States Code, I hereby assign to you the functions of the
    President under section 104(h) of the Compact of Free Association
    Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188) [48 U.S.C. 1921c(h)].
      You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the
    Federal Register.
                                                         George W. Bush.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921d                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921d. Supplemental provisions

-STATUTE-
    (a) Domestic program requirements
      Except as may otherwise be provided in this joint resolution, all
    United States Federal programs and services extended to or operated
    in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands are and shall remain subject to all applicable
    criteria, standards, reporting requirements, auditing procedures,
    and other rules and regulations applicable to such programs when
    operating in the United States (including its territories and
    commonwealths).
    (b) Relations with the Federated States of Micronesia and the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands
      (1) Appropriations made pursuant to Article I of Title Two and
    subsection (a)(2) of section 221 of article II of Title Two of the
    U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact shall be made to the
    Secretary of the Interior, who shall have the authority necessary
    to fulfill his responsibilities for monitoring and managing the
    funds so appropriated consistent with the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
    U.S.-RMI Compact, including the agreements referred to in section
    462(b)(4) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and U.S.-RMI Compact (relating to
    Fiscal Procedures) and the agreements referred to in section
    462(b)(5) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact
    (regarding the Trust Funds).
      (2) Appropriations made pursuant to subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3)
    through (6) of section 221 of Article II of Title Two of the U.S.-
    FSM Compact and subsection (a)(1) and (a)(3) through (5) of the
    U.S.-RMI Compact shall be made directly to the agencies named in
    those subsections.
      (3) Appropriations for services and programs referred to in
    subsection (b) of section 221 of Article II of Title Two of the
    U.S.-FSM Compact or U.S.-RMI Compact and appropriations for
    services and programs referred to in subsection (f) of this section
    and section 1921g(a) of this title shall be made to the relevant
    agencies in accordance with the terms of the appropriations for
    such services and programs.
      (4) Federal agencies providing programs and services to the
    Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands shall coordinate with the Secretaries of the Interior and
    State regarding provision of such programs and services. The
    Secretaries of the Interior and State shall consult with
    appropriate officials of the Asian Development Bank and with the
    Secretary of the Treasury regarding overall economic conditions in
    the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands and regarding the activities of other donors of assistance
    to the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands.
      (5) United States Government employees in either the Federated
    States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall Islands are
    subject to the authority of the United States Chief of Mission,
    including as elaborated in section 3927 of title 22 and the
    President's Letter of Instruction to the United States Chief of
    Mission and any order or directive of the President in effect from
    time to time.
      (6) Interagency group on freely associated states' affairs. - 
        (A) In general. - The President is hereby authorized to appoint
      an Interagency Group on Freely Associated States' Affairs to
      provide policy guidance and recommendations on implementation of
      the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact to Federal
      departments and agencies.
        (B) Secretaries. - It is the sense of Congress that the
      Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Interior shall be
      represented on the Interagency Group.

      (7) United states appointees to joint committees. - 
        (A) Joint economic management committee. - 
          (i) In general. - The three United States appointees (United
        States chair plus two members) to the Joint Economic Management
        Committee provided for in section 213 of the U.S.-FSM Compact
        and Article III of the U.S.-FSM Fiscal Procedures Agreement
        referred to in section 462(b)(4) of the U.S.-FSM Compact shall
        be United States Government officers or employees.
          (ii) Departments. - It is the sense of Congress that 2 of the
        3 appointees should be designated from the Department of State
        and the Department of the Interior, and that U.S. officials of
        the Asian Development Bank shall be consulted in order to
        properly coordinate U.S. and Asian Development Bank financial,
        program, and technical assistance.
          (iii) Additional scope. - Section 213 of the U.S.-FSM Compact
        shall be construed to read as though the phrase, "the
        implementation of economic policy reforms to encourage
        investment and to achieve self-sufficient tax rates," were
        inserted after "with particular focus on those parts of the
        plan dealing with the sectors identified in subsection (a) of
        section 211".

        (B) Joint economic management and financial accountability
      committee. - 
          (i) In general. - The three United States appointees (United
        States chair plus two members) to the Joint Economic Management
        and Financial Accountability Committee provided for in section
        214 of the U.S.-RMI Compact and Article III of the U.S.-RMI
        Fiscal Procedures Agreement referred to in section 462(b)(4) of
        the U.S.-RMI Compact shall be United States Government officers
        or employees.
          (ii) Departments. - It is the sense of Congress that 2 of the
        3 appointees should be designated from the Department of State
        and the Department of the Interior, and that U.S. officials of
        the Asian Development Bank shall be consulted in order to
        properly coordinate U.S. and Asian Development Bank financial,
        program, and technical assistance.
          (iii) Additional scope. - Section 214 of the U.S.-RMI Compact
        shall be construed to read as though the phrase, "the
        implementation of economic policy reforms to encourage
        investment and to achieve self-sufficient tax rates," were
        inserted after "with particular focus on those parts of the
        framework dealing with the sectors and areas identified in
        subsection (a) of section 211".

      (8) Oversight and coordination. - It is the sense of Congress
    that the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Interior shall
    ensure that there are personnel resources committed in the
    appropriate numbers and locations to ensure effective oversight of
    United States assistance, and effective coordination of assistance
    among United States agencies and with other international donors
    such as the Asian Development Bank.
      (9) The United States voting members (United States chair plus
    two or more members) of the Trust Fund Committee appointed by the
    Government of the United States pursuant to Article 7 of the Trust
    Fund Agreement implementing section 215 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and
    referred to in section 462(b)(5) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and any
    alternates designated by the Government of the United States shall
    be United States Government officers or employees. The United
    States voting members (United States chair plus two or more
    members) of the Trust Fund Committee appointed by the Government of
    the United States pursuant to Article 7 of the Trust Fund Agreement
    implementing section 216 of the U.S.-RMI Compact and referred to in
    section 462(b)(5) of the U.S.-RMI Compact and any alternates
    designated by the Government of the United States shall be United
    States Government officers or employees. It is the sense of
    Congress that the appointees should be designated from the
    Department of State, the Department of the Interior, and the
    Department of the Treasury.
      (10) The Trust Fund Committee provided for in Article 7 of the
    U.S.-FSM Trust Fund Agreement implementing section 215 of the U.S.-
    FSM Compact shall be a nonprofit corporation incorporated under
    the laws of the District of Columbia. To the extent that any law,
    rule, regulation or ordinance of the District of Columbia, or of
    any State or political subdivision thereof in which the Trust Fund
    Committee is incorporated or doing business, impedes or otherwise
    interferes with the performance of the functions of the Trust Fund
    Committee pursuant to this joint resolution, such law, rule,
    regulation, or ordinance shall be deemed to be preempted by this
    joint resolution. The Trust Fund Committee provided for in Article
    7 of the U.S.-RMI Trust Fund Agreement implementing section 216 of
    the U.S.-RMI Compact shall be a non-profit corporation incorporated
    under the laws of the District of Columbia. To the extent that any
    law, rule, regulation or ordinance of the District of Columbia, or
    of any State or political subdivision thereof in which the Trust
    Fund Committee is incorporated or doing business, impedes or
    otherwise interferes with the performance of the functions of the
    Trust Fund Committee pursuant to this joint resolution, such law,
    rule, regulation, or ordinance shall be deemed to be preempted by
    this joint resolution.
    (c) Continuing Trust Territory authorization
      The authorization provided by the Act of June 30, 1954, as
    amended (68 Stat. 330) shall remain available after the effective
    date of the Compact with respect to the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the
    following purposes:
        (1) Prior to October 1, 1986, for any purpose authorized by the
      Compact or the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law
      99-239).
        (2) Transition purposes, including but not limited to,
      completion of projects and fulfillment of commitments or
      obligations; termination of the Trust Territory Government and
      termination of the High Court; health and education as a result
      of exceptional circumstances; ex gratia contributions for the
      populations of Bikini, Enewetak, Rongelap, and Utrik; and
      technical assistance and training in financial management,
      program administration, and maintenance of infrastructure.
    (d) Survivability
      In furtherance of the provisions of Title Four, Article V,
    sections 452 and 453 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI
    Compact, any provisions of the U.S.-FSM Compact or the U.S.-RMI
    Compact which remain effective after the termination of the U.S.-
    FSM Compact or U.S.-RMI Compact by the act of any party thereto
    and which are affected in any manner by provisions of this part
    shall remain subject to such provisions.
    (e) Noncompliance sanctions; actions incompatible with United
      States authority
      Congress expresses its understanding that the Governments of the
    Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands will not act in a manner incompatible with the authority
    and responsibility of the United States for security and defense
    matters in or related to the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to the U.S.-FSM Compact
    or the U.S.-RMI Compact, including the agreements referred to in
    sections 462(a)(2) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and 462(a)(5) of the
    U.S.-RMI Compact. Congress further expresses its intention that any
    such act on the part of either such Government will be viewed by
    the United States as a material breach of the U.S.-FSM Compact or
    U.S.-RMI Compact. The Government of the United States reserves the
    right in the event of such a material breach of the U.S.-FSM
    Compact by the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia or
    the U.S.-RMI Compact by the Government of the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands to take action, including (but not limited to) the
    suspension in whole or in part of the obligations of the Government
    of the United States to that Government.
    (f) Continuing programs and laws
      (1) Federated States of Micronesia and Republic of the Marshall
        Islands
        In addition to the programs and services set forth in section
      221 of the Compact, and pursuant to section 222 of the Compact,
      the programs and services of the following agencies shall be made
      available to the Federated States of Micronesia and to the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands:
        (A) Emergency and disaster assistance
          (i) In general
            Subject to clause (ii), section 221(a)(6) of the U.S.-FSM
          Compact and section 221(a)(5) of the U.S.-RMI Compact shall
          each be construed and applied in accordance with the two
          Agreements to Amend Article X of the Federal Programs and
          Service Agreements signed on June 30, 2004, and on June 18,
          2004, respectively, provided that all activities carried out
          by the United States Agency for International Development and
          the Federal Emergency Management Agency under Article X of
          the Federal Programs and Services Agreements may be carried
          out notwithstanding any other provision of law. In the
          sections referred to in this clause, the term "United States
          Agency for International Development, Office of Foreign
          Disaster Assistance" shall be construed to mean "the United
          States Agency for International Development".
          (ii) Definition of will provide funding
            In the second sentence of paragraph 12 of each of the
          Agreements described in clause (i), the term "will provide
          funding" means will provide funding through a transfer of
          funds using Standard Form 1151 or a similar document or
          through an interagency, reimbursable agreement.
        (B) Treatment of additional programs
          (i) Consultation
            The United States appointees to the committees established
          pursuant to section 213 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and section
          214 of the U.S.-RMI Compact shall consult with the Secretary
          of Education regarding the objectives, use, and monitoring of
          United States financial, program, and technical assistance
          made available for educational purposes.
          (ii) Continuing programs
            The Government of the United States - 
              (I) shall continue to make available to the Federated
            States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
            Islands for fiscal years 2004 through 2023, the services to
            individuals eligible for such services under the
            Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
            et seq.) to the extent that such services continue to be
            available to individuals in the United States; and
              (II) shall continue to make available to eligible
            institutions in the Federated States of Micronesia and the
            Republic of the Marshall Islands, and to students enrolled
            in such institutions, and in institutions in the United
            States, its territories, and the Republic of Palau, for
            fiscal years 2004 through 2023, grants under subpart 1 of
            part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
            U.S.C. 1070a et seq.) to the extent that such grants
            continue to be available to institutions and students in
            the United States.
          (iii) Supplemental education grants
            In lieu of eligibility for appropriations under part A of
          title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
          (20 U.S.C. 6311 et seq.), title I of the Workforce Investment
          Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.), other than subtitle C
          of that Act (29 U.S.C. 2881 et seq.) (Job Corps), title II of
          the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (20 U.S.C. 9201 et seq.;
          commonly known as the Adult Education and Family Literacy
          Act), title I of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical
          Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2321 et seq.), the Head
          Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), and subpart 3 of part A,
          and part C, of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965
          (20 U.S.C. 1070b et seq., 42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), there are
          authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Education
          to supplement the education grants under section 211(a)(1) of
          the U.S.-FSM Compact and section 211(a)(1) of the U.S.-RMI
          Compact, respectively, the following amounts:
              (I) $12,230,000 for the Federated States of Micronesia
            for fiscal year 2005 and an equivalent amount, as adjusted
            for inflation under section 217 of the U.S.-FSM Compact,
            for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2023; and
              (II) $6,100,000 for the Republic of the Marshall Islands
            for fiscal year 2005 and an equivalent amount, as adjusted
            for inflation under section 218 of the U.S.-RMI Compact,
            for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2023,

          except that citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia
          and the Republic of the Marshall Islands who attend an
          institution of higher education in the United States or its
          territories, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
          of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau on December
          17, 2003, may continue to receive assistance under such
          subpart 3 of part A or part C, for not more than 4 academic
          years after such date to enable such citizens to complete
          their program of study.
          (iv) Fiscal procedures
            Appropriations made pursuant to clause (iii) shall be used
          and monitored in accordance with an agreement between the
          Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary
          of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of the
          Interior, and in accordance with the respective Fiscal
          Procedures Agreements referred to in section 462(b)(4) of the
          U.S.-FSM Compact and section 462(b)(4) of the U.S.-RMI
          Compact. The agreement between the Secretary of Education,
          the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human
          Services, and the Secretary of the Interior shall provide for
          the transfer, not later than 60 days after the appropriations
          made pursuant to clause (iii) become available to the
          Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Labor, and the
          Secretary of Health and Human Services, from the Secretary of
          Education, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of
          Health and Human Services, to the Secretary of the Interior
          for disbursement.
          (v) Formula education grants
            For fiscal years 2005 through 2023, except as provided in
          clause (ii) and the exception provided under clause (iii),
          the Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
          Republic of the Marshall Islands shall not receive any grant
          under any formula-grant program administered by the Secretary
          of Education or the Secretary of Labor, nor any grant
          provided through the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.)
          administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
          (vi) Transition
            For fiscal year 2004, the Governments of the Federated
          States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands
          shall continue to be eligible for appropriations and to
          receive grants under the provisions of law specified in
          clauses (ii) and (iii).
          (vii) Technical assistance
            The Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the
          Marshall Islands may request technical assistance from the
          Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Health and Human
          Services, or the Secretary of Labor the terms of which,
          including reimbursement, shall be negotiated with the
          participation of the appropriate cabinet officer for
          inclusion in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement.
          (viii) Continued eligibility for competitive grants
            The Governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and
          the Republic of the Marshall Islands shall continue to be
          eligible for competitive grants administered by the Secretary
          of Education, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and
          the Secretary of Labor to the extent that such grants
          continue to be available to State and local governments in
          the United States.
          (ix) Applicability
            The government, institutions, and people of Palau shall
          remain eligible for appropriations and to receive grants
          under the provisions of law specified in clauses (ii) and
          (iii) until the end of fiscal year 2009, to the extent the
          government, institutions, and people of Palau were so
          eligible under such provisions in fiscal year 2003.

          (C) The Legal Services Corporation, which shall also continue
        to be available to the citizens of the Federated States of
        Micronesia, the Republic of Palau, and the Republic of the
        Marshall Islands who legally reside in the United States
        (including territories and possessions).
          (D) The Public Health Service.
          (E) The Rural Housing Service (formerly, the Farmers Home
        Administration) in the Marshall Islands and each of the four
        States of the Federated States of Micronesia: Provided, That in
        lieu of continuation of the program in the Federated States of
        Micronesia, the President may agree to transfer to the
        Government of the Federated States of Micronesia without cost,
        the portfolio of the Rural Housing Service applicable to the
        Federated States of Micronesia and provide such technical
        assistance in management of the portfolio as may be requested
        by the Federated States of Micronesia.
      (2) Tort claims
        The provisions of section 178 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the
      U.S.-RMI Compact regarding settlement and payment of tort claims
      shall apply to employees of any Federal agency of the Government
      of the United States (and to any other person employed on behalf
      of any Federal agency of the Government of the United States on
      the basis of a contractual, cooperative, or similar agreement)
      which provides any service or carries out any other function
      pursuant to or in furtherance of any provisions of the U.S.-FSM
      Compact or the U.S.-RMI Compact or this joint resolution, except
      for provisions of Title Three of the Compact and of the
      subsidiary agreements related to such Title, in such area to
      which such Agreement formerly applied.
      (3) PCB cleanup
        The programs and services of the Environmental Protection
      Agency regarding PCBs shall, to the extent applicable, as
      appropriate, and in accordance with applicable law, be construed
      to be made available to such islands for the cleanup of PCBs
      imported prior to 1987. The Secretary of the Interior and the
      Secretary of Defense shall cooperate and assist in any such
      cleanup activities.
    (g) College of Micronesia
      Until otherwise provided by Act of Congress, or until termination
    of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact, the College of
    Micronesia shall retain its status as a land-grant institution and
    its eligibility for all benefits and programs available to such
    land-grant institutions.
    (h) Trust Territory debts to U.S. Federal agencies
      Neither the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia nor
    the Government of the Marshall Islands shall be required to pay to
    any department, agency, independent agency, office, or
    instrumentality of the United States any amounts owed to such
    department, agency, independent agency, office, or instrumentality
    by the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as
    of the effective date of the Compact. There is authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the
    purposes of this subsection.
    (i) Judicial training
      (1) In general
        In addition to amounts provided under section 211(a)(4) of the
      U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact, the Secretary of the
      Interior shall annually provide $300,000 for the training of
      judges and officials of the judiciary in the Federated States of
      Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands in
      cooperation with the Pacific Islands Committee of the Ninth
      Circuit Judicial Council and in accordance with and to the extent
      provided in the Federal Programs and Services Agreement and the
      Fiscal Procedure Agreement, as appropriate.
      (2) Authorization and continuing appropriation
        There is hereby authorized and appropriated to the Secretary of
      the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise
      appropriated, to remain available until expended, for each fiscal
      year from 2004 through 2023, $300,000, as adjusted for inflation
      under section 218 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI
      Compact, to carry out the purposes of this section.
    (j) Technical assistance
      Technical assistance may be provided pursuant to section 224 of
    the U.S.-FSM Compact or the U.S.-RMI Compact by Federal agencies
    and institutions of the Government of the United States to the
    extent such assistance may be provided to States, territories, or
    units of local government. Such assistance by the Forest Service,
    the Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Fish and Wildlife
    Service, the National Marine Fisheries Service, the United States
    Coast Guard, and the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the
    Department of the Interior, and other agencies providing assistance
    under the National Historic Preservation Act (80 Stat. 915; 16
    U.S.C. 470-470t), shall be on a nonreimbursable basis. During the
    period the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact are in effect,
    the grant programs under the National Historic Preservation Act
    shall continue to apply to the Federated States of Micronesia and
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands in the same manner and to the
    same extent as prior to the approval of the Compact. Any funds
    provided pursuant to subsections (c) and (g) to (m) of this section
    and sections 1921a(a) and 1921b(a), (b), (f) to (h), and (j) of
    this title shall be in addition to and not charged against any
    amounts to be paid to either the Federated States of Micronesia or
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands pursuant to the U.S.-FSM
    Compact, the U.S.-RMI Compact, or their related subsidiary
    agreements.
    (k) Prior service benefits program
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, persons who on
    January 1, 1985, were eligible to receive payment under the Prior
    Service Benefits Program established within the Social Security
    System of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands because of
    their services performed for the United States Navy or the
    Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands prior to
    July 1, 1968, shall continue to receive such payments on and after
    the effective date of the Compact.
    (l) Indefinite land use payments
      There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to complete repayment by the United States of any debts
    owed for the use of various lands in the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Marshall Islands prior to January 1, 1985.
    (m) Communicable disease control program
      There are authorized to be appropriated for grants to the
    Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Government of
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the governments of the
    affected jurisdictions, such sums as may be necessary for purposes
    of establishing or continuing programs for the control and
    prevention of communicable diseases, including (but not limited to)
    cholera, tuberculosis, and Hansen's Disease. The Secretary of the
    Interior shall assist the Government of the Federated States of
    Micronesia, the Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands
    and the governments of the affected jurisdictions in designing and
    implementing such a program.
    (n) User fees
      Any person in the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic
    of the Marshall Islands shall be liable for user fees, if any, for
    services provided in the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands by the Government of the United
    States to the same extent as any person in the United States would
    be liable for fees, if any, for such services in the United States.
    (o) Treatment of judgments of courts of the Federated States of
      Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
      Republic of Palau
      No judgment, whenever issued, of a court of the Federated States
    of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the
    Republic of Palau, against the United States, its departments and
    agencies, or officials of the United States or any other
    individuals acting on behalf of the United States within the scope
    of their official duty, shall be honored by the United States, or
    be subject to recognition or enforcement in a court in the United
    States, unless the judgment is consistent with the interpretation
    by the United States of international agreements relevant to the
    judgment. In determining the consistency of a judgment with an
    international agreement, due regard shall be given to assurances
    made by the Executive Branch to Congress of the United States
    regarding the proper interpretation of the international agreement.
    (p) Establishment of trust funds; expedition of process
      (1) In general
        The Trust Fund Agreement executed pursuant to the U.S.-FSM
      Compact and the Trust Fund Agreement executed pursuant to the
      U.S.-RMI Compact each provides for the establishment of a trust
      fund.
      (2) Method of establishment
        The trust fund may be established by - 
          (A) creating a new legal entity to constitute the trust fund;
        or
          (B) assuming control of an existing legal entity including,
        without limitation, a trust fund or other legal entity that was
        established by or at the direction of the Government of the
        United States, the Government of the Federated States of
        Micronesia, the Government of the Republic of the Marshall
        Islands, or otherwise for the purpose of facilitating or
        expediting the establishment of the trust fund pursuant to the
        applicable Trust Fund Agreement.
      (3) Obligations
        For the purpose of expediting the commencement of operations of
      a trust fund under either Trust Fund Agreement, the trust fund
      may, but shall not be obligated to, assume any obligations of an
      existing legal entity and take assignment of any contract or
      other agreement to which the existing legal entity is party.
      (4) Assistance
        Without limiting the authority that the United States
      Government may otherwise have under applicable law, the United
      States Government may, but shall not be obligated to, provide
      financial, technical, or other assistance directly or indirectly
      to the Government of the Federated States of Micronesia or the
      Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the
      purpose of establishing and operating a trust fund or other legal
      entity that will solicit bids from, and enter into contracts
      with, parties willing to serve in such capacities as trustee,
      depositary, money manager, or investment advisor, with the
      intention that the contracts will ultimately be assumed by and
      assigned to a trust fund established pursuant to a Trust Fund
      Agreement.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 105, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2744;
    Pub. L. 109-270, Sec. 2(l), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 749; Pub. L.
    110-161, div. F, title I, Sec. 124, Dec. 26, 2007, 121 Stat. 2121;
    Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Secs. 803(a), 804, 805, 806(a)(3), May
    8, 2008, 122 Stat. 870, 871.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This joint resolution, referred to in subsecs. (a), (b)(10), and
    (f)(2), is Pub. L. 108-188, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat. 2720, known as
    the Compact of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003, which
    enacted this part and provisions set out as notes under sections
    1901 and 1921 of this title and amended provisions set out as a
    note under section 3101 of Title 5, Government Organization and
    Employees. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set out under section 1901 of
    this title and Tables.
      Section 3927 of title 22, referred to in subsec. (b)(5), was in
    the original "section 207 of the Foreign Service Act", and was
    translated as meaning section 207 of the Foreign Service Act of
    1980 to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
      Act of June 30, 1954, referred to in subsec. (c), is act June 30,
    1954, ch. 423, 68 Stat. 330, as amended, which enacted sections
    1681 and 1681b of this title and provisions set out as notes under
    section 1681 of this title. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Tables.
      The joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239),
    referred to in subsec. (c)(1), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99
    Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free Association
    Act of 1985, which is classified principally to part A of this
    subchapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.
      The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, referred to in
    subsec. (f)(1)(B)(ii)(I), is title VI of Pub. L. 91-230, Apr. 13,
    1970, 84 Stat. 175, as amended, which is classified generally to
    chapter 33 (Sec. 1400 et seq.) of Title 20, Education. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see section 1400 of Title
    20 and Tables.
      The Higher Education Act of 1965, referred to in subsec.
    (f)(1)(B)(ii)(II), (iii), is Pub. L. 89-329, Nov. 8, 1965, 79 Stat.
    1219, as amended. Subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the Act is
    classified generally to subpart 1 (Sec. 1070a et seq.) of part A of
    subchapter IV of chapter 28 of Title 20, Education. Subpart 3 of
    part A of title IV of the Act is classified generally to subpart 3
    (Sec. 1070b et seq.) of part A of subchapter IV of chapter 28 of
    Title 20. Part C of title IV of the Act is classified generally to
    part C (Sec. 2751 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 34 of Title
    42, The Public Health and Welfare. For complete classification of
    this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1001 of Title 20 and Tables.
      The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, referred to
    in subsec. (f)(1)(B)(iii), is Pub. L. 89-10, Apr. 11, 1965, 79
    Stat. 27, as amended. Part A of title I of the Act is classified
    generally to part A (Sec. 6311 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter
    70 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 6301 of
    Title 20 and Tables.
      The Workforce Investment Act of 1998, referred to in subsec.
    (f)(1)(B)(iii), is Pub. L. 105-220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 936, as
    amended. Title I of the Act is classified principally to chapter 30
    (Sec. 2801 et seq.) of Title 29, Labor. Subtitle C of title I of
    the Act is classified generally to subchapter III (Sec. 2881 et
    seq.) of chapter 30 of Title 29. Title II of the Act, known as the
    Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, is classified principally
    to subchapter I (Sec. 9201 et seq.) of chapter 73 of Title 20,
    Education. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 9201 of Title 20 and Tables.
      Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006,
    referred to in subsec. (f)(1)(B)(iii), is Pub. L. 88-210, Dec. 18,
    1963, 77 Stat. 403, as amended generally by Pub. L. 109-270, Sec.
    1(b), Aug. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 683. Title I of the Act is
    classified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 2321 et seq.) of chapter
    44 of Title 20, Education. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section 2301 of
    Title 20 and Tables.
      The Head Start Act, referred to in subsec. (f)(1)(B)(iii), (v),
    is subchapter B (Sec. 635 et seq.) of chapter 8 of subtitle A of
    title VI of Pub. L. 97-35, Aug. 13, 1981, 95 Stat. 499, as amended,
    which is classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 9831 et seq.)
    of chapter 105 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short Title
    note set out under section 9801 of Title 42 and Tables.
      The National Historic Preservation Act, referred to in subsec.
    (j), is Pub. L. 89-665, Oct. 15, 1966, 80 Stat. 915, as amended,
    which is classified generally to subchapter II (Sec. 470 et seq.)
    of chapter 1A of Title 16, Conservation. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see section 470(a) of Title
    16 and Tables.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 806(a)(3),
    substituted "Trust Funds)" for "Trust Fund)".
      Subsec. (f)(1)(A). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 803(a), amended subpar.
    (A) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (A) related to the
    continuing availability of programs and services of the Department
    of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      Subsec. (f)(1)(B)(ii)(II). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 804(1),
    substituted ", its territories, and the Republic of Palau" for "and
    its territories".
      Subsec. (f)(1)(B)(iii). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 804(2), which
    directed the substitution of ", the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, or the Republic of Palau" for ", or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands", in subcl. (II) of cl. (iii), was executed by
    making the substitution in the concluding provisions of cl. (iii),
    to reflect the probable intent of Congress.
      Subsec. (f)(1)(B)(ix). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 804(3), which
    directed substitution of "government, institutions, and people" for
    "Republic" in two places and substitution of "2009" for "2007" and
    "were" for "was", could not be executed because of the prior
    identical amendments by Pub. L. 110-161. See 2007 Amendment note
    below.
      Subsec. (f)(1)(C). Pub. L. 110-229, Sec. 805, inserted before
    period at end ", which shall also continue to be available to the
    citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of
    Palau, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands who legally reside
    in the United States (including territories and possessions)".
      2007 - Subsec. (f)(1)(B)(ix). Pub. L. 110-161 substituted
    "government, institutions, and people" for "Republic" in two
    places, "2009" for "2007", and "were" for "was".
      2006 - Subsec. (f)(1)(B)(iii). Pub. L. 109-270 substituted "Carl
    D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006" for "Carl D.
    Perkins Vocational and Technical Education Act of 1998".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2008 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 803(b), May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    870, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection (a)
    [amending this section] shall be effective as of the date that is
    180 days after the date of enactment of this Act [May 8, 2008]."

            CONTINUED APPLICABILITY OF SUBSECTION (F)(1)(B)(IX)        
      Pub. L. 111-117, div. D, title III, Sec. 309, Dec. 16, 2009, 123
    Stat. 3272, provided that: "Section 105(f)(1)(B)(ix) of the Compact
    of Free Association Amendments Act of 2003 (48 U.S.C.
    1921d(f)(1)(B)(ix)) shall be applied by substituting '2010' for
    '2009'."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921e                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921e. Construction contract assistance

-STATUTE-
    (a) Assistance to U.S. firms
      In order to assist the Governments of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and of the Republic of the Marshall Islands through
    private sector firms which may be awarded contracts for
    construction or major repair of capital infrastructure within the
    Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, the United States shall consult with the Governments of
    the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands with respect to any such contracts, and the United States
    shall enter into agreements with such firms whereby such firms
    will, consistent with applicable requirements of such Governments -
    
        (1) to the maximum extent possible, employ citizens of the
      Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
      Islands;
        (2) to the extent that necessary skills are not possessed by
      citizens of the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic
      of the Marshall Islands, provide on the job training, with
      particular emphasis on the development of skills relating to
      operation of machinery and routine and preventative maintenance
      of machinery and other facilities; and
        (3) provide specific training or other assistance in order to
      enable the Government to engage in long-term maintenance of
      infrastructure.

    Assistance by such firms pursuant to this section may not exceed 20
    percent of the amount of the contract and shall be made available
    only to such firms which meet the definition of United States firm
    under the nationality rule for suppliers of services of the Agency
    for International Development (hereafter in this section referred
    to as "United States firms"). There are authorized to be
    appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the purposes of this
    subsection.
    (b) Authorization of appropriations
      There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to cover any additional costs incurred by the Government
    of the Federated States of Micronesia or the Republic of the
    Marshall Islands if such Governments, pursuant to an agreement
    entered into with the United States, apply a preference on the
    award of contracts to United States firms, provided that the amount
    of such preference does not exceed 10 percent of the amount of the
    lowest qualified bid from a non-United States firm for such
    contract.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 106, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2755.)

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921f                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921f. Prohibition

-STATUTE-
      All laws governing conflicts of interest and post-employment of
    Federal employees shall apply to the implementation of this Act.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 107, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2755.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 108-188, Dec. 17, 2003,
    117 Stat. 2720, known as the Compact of Free Association Amendments
    Act of 2003, which enacted this part and provisions set out as
    notes under sections 1901 and 1921 of this title and amended
    provisions set out as a note under section 3101 of Title 5,
    Government Organization and Employees. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title of 2003 Amendment note set
    out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921g                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921g. Compensatory adjustments

-STATUTE-
    (a) Additional programs and services
      In addition to the programs and services set forth in section 221
    of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact, and pursuant to
    section 222 of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI Compact, the
    services and programs of the following United States agencies shall
    be made available to the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands: the Small Business
    Administration, Economic Development Administration, the Rural
    Utilities Services (formerly Rural Electrification Administration);
    the programs and services of the Department of Labor under subtitle
    C of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C.
    2881 et seq.; relating to Job Corps); and the programs and services
    of the Department of Commerce relating to tourism and to marine
    resource development.
    (b) Further amounts
      (1) The joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239)
    provided that the governments of the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Marshall Islands may submit to Congress reports concerning
    the overall financial and economic impacts on such areas resulting
    from the effect of title IV of that joint resolution upon Title Two
    of the Compact. There were authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
    years beginning after September 30, 1990, such amounts as
    necessary, but not to exceed $40,000,000 for the Federated States
    of Micronesia and $20,000,000 for the Marshall Islands, as provided
    in appropriation acts, to further compensate the governments of
    such islands (in addition to the compensation provided in
    subsections (a) and (b) of section 111 of the joint resolution of
    January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239) [48 U.S.C. 1911(a), (b)]) for
    adverse impacts, if any, on the finances and economies of such
    areas resulting from the effect of title IV of that joint
    resolution upon Title Two of the Compact. The joint resolution of
    January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239) further provided that at the
    end of the initial fifteen-year term of the Compact, should any
    portion of the total amount of funds authorized in section 111 of
    that resolution not have been appropriated, such amount not yet
    appropriated may be appropriated, without regard to divisions
    between amounts authorized in section 111 for the Federated States
    of Micronesia and for the Marshall Islands, based on either or both
    such government's showing of such adverse impact, if any, as
    provided in that subsection.
      (2) The governments of the Federated States of Micronesia and the
    Republic of the Marshall Islands may each submit no more than one
    report or request for further compensation under section 111 of the
    joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239) and any
    such report or request must be submitted by September 30, 2009.
    Only adverse economic effects occurring during the initial 15-year
    term of the Compact may be considered for compensation under
    section 111 of the joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law
    99-239).

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 108, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2755.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Workforce Investment Act of 1998, referred to in subsec. (a),
    is Pub. L. 105-220, Aug. 7, 1998, 112 Stat. 936, as amended.
    Subtitle C of title I of the Act is classified generally to
    subchapter III (Sec. 2881 et seq.) of chapter 30 of Title 29,
    Labor. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 9201 of Title 20, Education,
    and Tables.
      The joint resolution of January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-239),
    referred to in subsec. (b)(1), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99
    Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free Association
    Act of 1985, which is classified principally to part A of this
    subchapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. Title
    IV of the joint resolution is set out as a note under section 1901
    of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1921h                                           02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER I - MICRONESIA AND MARSHALL ISLANDS
    Part B - Approval and Implementation of Compacts, As Amended

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1921h. Authorization and continuing appropriation

-STATUTE-
      (a) There are authorized and appropriated to the Department of
    the Interior, out of any funds in the Treasury not otherwise
    appropriated, to remain available until expended, such sums as are
    necessary to carry out the purposes of sections 1921d(f)(1) and
    1921d(i) of this title, sections 211, 212(b), 215, and 217 of the
    U.S.-FSM Compact, and sections 211, 212, 213(b), 216, and 218 of
    the U.S.-RMI Compact, in this and subsequent years.
      (b) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Departments,
    agencies, and instrumentalities named in paragraphs (1) and (3)
    through (6) of section 221(a) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and
    paragraphs (1) and (3) through (5) of section 221(a) of the U.S.-
    RMI Compact, such sums as are necessary to carry out the purposes
    of sections 221(a) of the U.S.-FSM Compact and the U.S.-RMI
    Compact, to remain available until expended.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 108-188, title I, Sec. 109, Dec. 17, 2003, 117 Stat.
    2756.)

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU                                02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU

-HEAD-
                           SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU                       

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental
                     Provisions                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental Provisions

-HEAD-
         PART A - APPROVAL OF COMPACT AND SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS     

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1931                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental Provisions

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1931. Approval of Compact of Free Association

-STATUTE-
    (a) Approval
      The Compact of Free Association set forth in title II of this
    joint resolution between the United States and the Government of
    Palau is hereby approved, and Congress hereby consents to the
    agreements as set forth on pages 154 through 405 of House Document
    99-193 of April 9, 1986 (hereafter in this joint resolution
    referred to as subsidiary or related agreements), as they relate to
    such Government. Subject to the provisions of this joint
    resolution, the President is authorized to agree, in accordance
    with section 411 of the Compact, to an effective date for and
    thereafter to implement such Compact, having taken into account any
    procedures with respect to the United Nations for termination of
    the Trusteeship Agreement.
    (b) Reference to Compact
      Any reference in this joint resolution to the "Compact" shall be
    treated as a reference to the Compact of Free Association set forth
    in title II of this joint resolution.
    (c) Amendment, change, or termination of Compact and certain
      agreements
      (1) Mutual agreement by the Government of the United States as
    provided in the Compact which results in amendment, change, or
    termination of all or any part thereof shall be affected only by
    Act of Congress and no unilateral action by the Government of the
    United States provided for in the Compact, and having such result,
    may be effected other than by Act of Congress.
      (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall apply - 
        (A) to all actions of the Government of the United States under
      the Compact including, but not limited to, actions taken pursuant
      to sections 431, 432, 441, or 442;
        (B) to any amendment, change, or termination in any agreement
      that may be concluded at any time between the Government of the
      United States and the Government of Palau regarding friendship,
      cooperation and mutual security concluded pursuant to sections
      321 and 323 of the Compact referred to in section 462(h);
        (C) to any amendment, change, or termination of the agreements
      concluded pursuant to Compact sections 175 and 221(a)(4), the
      terms of which are incorporated by reference into the Compact;
      and
        (D) to the following subsidiary agreements, or portions
      thereof:
          (i) Article II of the agreement referred to in section 462(a)
        of the Compact;
          (ii) Article II of the agreement referred to in section
        462(b) of the Compact;
          (iii) Article II and Section 7 of Article X of the agreement
        referred to in section 462(f) of the Compact;
          (iv) the agreement referred to in section 462(g) of the
        Compact;
          (v) Articles II, III, IV, V, VI, and VII of the agreement
        referred to in section 462(h) of the Compact; and
          (vi) Articles VI, XV, and XVII of the agreement referred to
        in section 462(i) of the Compact.
    (d) Effective date
      (1) The authority of the President to agree to an effective date
    for the Compact of Free Association between the United States and
    Palau concurrently with termination of the Trusteeship shall be
    carried out in accordance with this section, and the Compact shall
    not take effect until after - 
        (A) The President has certified to the Congress that the
      Compact has been approved in accordance with Section 411(a) and
      (b) of the Compact, and that there exists no legal impediment to
      the ability of the United States to carry out fully its
      responsibilities and to exercise its rights under Title Three of
      the Compact, as set forth in this Act, and
        (B) enactment of a joint resolution which has been reported by
      the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and
      the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs and Foreign
      Affairs and other appropriate Committees of the House of
      Representatives authorizing entry into force of the Compact, and
        (C) agreements have been concluded with Palau which satisfy the
      requirements of section 1902 of this title. For the purpose of
      this subsection the word "Palau" shall be substituted for
      "Federated States of Micronesia" whenever it appears in section
      1902 of this title.

      (2) Any agreement concluded with Palau pursuant to subparagraph
    (C) of paragraph (1) and any agreement which would amend, change,
    or terminate any subsidiary agreement or related agreement, or
    portion thereof, as set forth in paragraph (4) of this subsection
    shall be submitted to the Congress. No such agreement shall take
    effect until after the expiration of 30 days after the date such
    agreement is so submitted (excluding days on which either House of
    Congress is not in session).
      (3) No agreement described in paragraph (2) shall take effect if
    a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted during the period
    specified in paragraph (2). For the purpose of expediting the
    consideration of such a joint resolution, a motion to proceed to
    the consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been
    reported by an appropriate committee shall be treated as highly
    privileged in the House of Representatives. Any such joint
    resolution shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the
    provisions of section 601(b) of Public Law 94-329.
      (4) The subsidiary agreement of (!1) portions thereof referred to
    in paragraph (2) are as follows:

        (A) Articles III and IV of the agreement referred to in section
      462(b) of the Compact.
        (B) Articles III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, and X (except for
      section 7 thereof) of the agreement referred to in section 462(f)
      of the Compact.
        (C) Articles IV, V, X, XIV, XVI, and XVIII of the agreement
      referred to in section 462(i) of the Compact.
        (D) Articles II, V, VI, VII, and VIII of the agreement referred
      to in section 462(h) of the Compact.
        (E) The agreement referred to in section 462(j) of the Compact.

      (5) No agreement between the United States and the Government of
    Palau which would amend, change, or terminate any subsidiary or
    related agreement, or portion thereof, other than those set forth
    in subsection (d) (!2) of this section or paragraph (4) of this
    subsection, shall take effect until the President has transmitted
    such an agreement to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of
    the House of Representatives, together with an explanation of the
    agreement and the reasons therefor.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-658, title I, Sec. 101, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3673.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association and the Compact, referred to in
    text, is the Compact of Free Association between the United States
    and the Government of Palau, which is contained in section 201 of
    Pub. L. 99-658, set out below.
      This joint resolution and this Act, referred to in text, is Pub.
    L. 99-658, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is
    classified generally to this part. Title II of the joint resolution
    enacted section 1934 of this title and provisions set out below.
    For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      For Oct. 1, 1994, as the date the Compact of Free Association
    with Palau takes effect, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (d), see
    Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set out below.
      Section 601(b) of Public Law 94-329, referred to in subsec.
    (d)(3), is section 601(b) of Pub. L. 94-329, title VI, June 30,
    1976, 90 Stat. 765, which is not classified to the Code.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of
    Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House
    of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third
    Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.


-MISC1-
                 REGULATIONS REGARDING HABITUAL RESIDENCE             
      Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization to issue
    regulations, not later than 6 months after Sept. 30, 1996,
    governing rights of "habitual residence" in United States under
    terms of the Compact of Free Association between the Government of
    the United States and the Government of Palau, see section 643 of
    Pub. L. 104-208, formerly set out as a note under section 1901 of
    this title.


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.


-MISC2-
                              RECITAL CLAUSES                          
      Pub. L. 99-658 which enacted this part contained several
    "Whereas" clauses reading as follows:
      "Whereas the United States is the administering authority of the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands under the terms of the
    Trusteeship Agreement for the former Japanese Mandated Islands
    entered into by the United States with the Security Council of the
    United Nations on April 2, 1947, and approved by the United States
    on July 18, 1947; and
      "Whereas the United States, in accordance with the Trusteeship
    Agreement, the Charter of the United Nations and the objectives of
    the international trusteeship system, has promoted the development
    of the peoples of the Trust Territory toward self-government or
    independence as appropriate to the particular cicumstances [sic] of
    the Trust Territory and its peoples and the freely expressed wishes
    of the peoples concerned; and
      "Whereas the United States, in response to the desires of the
    people of Palau expressed through their freely-elected
    representatives and by the official pronouncements and enactments
    of their lawfully constituted government, and in consideration of
    its own obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement to promote self-
    determination, entered into political status negotiations with
    representatives of the people of Palau; and
      "Whereas these negotiations resulted in the 'Compact of Free
    Association' [set out below] between the United States and Palau
    which, together with its related agreements, was signed by the
    United States and by Palau on January 10, 1986; and
      "Whereas the Compact of Free Association received a favorable
    vote of a majority of the people of Palau voting in a United
    Nations-observed plebiscite conducted on February 21, 1986; and
      "Whereas the Supreme Court of Palau has ruled that the
    constitutional process of Palau for approval of the Compact of Free
    Association in accordance with section 411 of the Compact has not
    yet been completed; and
      "Whereas the President of Palau has requested the United States
    to complete the process of United States approval of the Compact of
    Free Association in accordance with section 411 of the Compact
    through enactment of an appropriate joint resolution".

                        COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION                    
      Section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658 provided that: "Compact of Free
    Association is as follows:

                       "COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION                   

                                 "PREAMBLE                             

    "THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT
                                 OF PALAU
      "Affirming that their Governments and the relationship between
    their Governments are founded upon respect for human rights and
    fundamental freedoms for all, and
      "Affirming the common interests of the United States of America
    and the people of Palau in creating close and mutually beneficial
    relationships through a free and voluntary association of their
    Governments; and
      "Affirming the interest of the Government of the United States in
    promoting the economic advancement and self-sufficiency of the
    people of Palau; and
      "Recognizing that their previous relationship has been based upon
    the International Trusteeship System of the United Nations Charter;
    and that pursuant to Article 76 of the Charter, the peoples of the
    Trust Territory have progressively developed their institutions of
    self-government, and that in the exercise of their sovereign right
    to self-determination they have, through their free-expressed [sic]
    wishes, adopted a Constitution appropriate to their particular
    circumstances; and
      "Recognizing their common desire to terminate the Trusteeship and
    establish a new government-to-government relationship in accordance
    with a new political status based on the freely-expressed wishes of
    the people of Palau and appropriate to their particular
    circumstances; and
      "Recognizing that the people of Palau have and retain their
    sovereignty and their sovereign right to self-determination and the
    inherent right to adopt and amend their own Constitution and form
    of government and that the approval of the entry of their
    Government into this Compact of Free Association by the people of
    Palau constitutes an exercise of their sovereign right to self-
    determination;
      "NOW, THEREFORE, AGREE to enter into relationship of free
    association which provides a full measure of self-government for
    the people of Palau; and
      "FURTHER AGREE that the relationships of free association derives
    from and is as set forth in this Compact; and that, during such
    relationships of free association, the respective rights and
    responsibilities of the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the freely associated state of Palau in regard to
    this relationship of free association derives from and is as set
    forth in this Compact.

                                "TITLE ONE                            

                           "GOVERNMENT RELATIONS                       

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "SELF-GOVERNMENT                         

      "Section 111
      "The people of Palau, acting through their duly elected
    government established under their constitution, are self-
    governing.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                             "FOREIGN AFFAIRS                         

      "Section 121
      "(a) The Republic of Palau has the capacity to conduct foreign
    affairs in its own name and right, except as otherwise provided in
    this Compact and the Government of the United States recognizes
    that the Government of Palau, in the exercise of this capacity, may
    enter into, in its own name and right, treaties and other
    international agreements with governments and regional and
    international organizations.
      "(b) In the conduct of its foreign affairs the Government of
    Palau confirms that it shall act in accordance with principles of
    international law and shall settle its international disputes by
    peaceful means.

      "Section 122
      "The Government of the United States shall support application by
    the Government of Palau for membership or other participation in
    regional or international organizations as may be mutually agreed.
    The Government of the United States agrees to accept citizens of
    Palau for training and instruction at the United States Foreign
    Service Institute [now George P. Shultz National Foreign Affairs
    Training Center], established under 22 U.S.C. 4021, or similar
    training under terms and conditions to be mutually agreed.

      "Section 123
      "In recognition of the authority and responsibility of the
    Government of the United States under Title Three, the Government
    of Palau shall consult with the Government of the United States.
    The Government of the United States, in the conduct of its foreign
    affairs, shall consult with the Government of Palau on matters
    which the Government of the United States regards as relating to or
    affecting the Government of Palau, and shall provide, on a regular
    basis, information on regional foreign policy matters.

      "Section 124
      "(a) The Government of Palau has authority to conduct its foreign
    affairs relating to law of the sea and marine resources matters,
    including the harvesting, conservation, exploration or exploitation
    of living and nonliving resources from the sea, seabed or subsoil
    to the full extent recognized under international law.
      "(b) The Government of Palau has jurisdiction and sovereignty
    over its territory, including its land and internal waters,
    territorial seas, the airspace superjacent thereto only to the
    extent recognized under international law.

      "Section 125
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact or its related
    agreements, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and benefits
    of the Government of the United States as administering authority
    which have resulted from the application pursuant to the
    Trusteeship Agreement of any treaty or other international
    agreement to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands on the day
    preceding the effective date of this Compact are no longer assumed
    and enjoyed by the Government of the United States.

      "Section 126
      "The Government of the United States shall accept responsibility
    for those actions taken by the Government of Palau in the area of
    foreign affairs, only as may from time to time be expressly and
    mutually agreed.

      "Section 127
      "The Government of the United States may assist or act on behalf
    of the Government of Palau in the area of foreign affairs as may be
    requested and mutually agreed from time to time. The Government of
    the United States shall not be responsible to third parties for the
    actions of the Government of Palau undertaken with the assistance
    or through the agency of the Government of the United States
    pursuant to this Section unless expressly agreed.

      "Section 128
      "At the request of the Government of Palau and subject to the
    consent of the receiving state, the Government of the United States
    shall extend consular assistance on the same basis as for citizens
    of the United States to citizens of Palau for travel outside of
    Palau, the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia,
    the United States and its territories and possessions.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                              "COMMUNICATIONS                          

      "Section 131
      "(a) The Government of Palau has full authority and
    responsibility to regulate its domestic and foreign communications,
    and the Government of the United States shall provide communication
    assistance in accordance with the terms of a related agreement
    which shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact, and
    such agreement shall remain in effect until such time as any
    election is made pursuant to Section 131(b) and which shall provide
    for the following:
        "(1) the Government of the United States remains the sole
      administration entitled to make notification to the International
      Frequency Registration Board of the International
      Telecommunications Union of frequency assignments to radio
      communications stations in Palau; and to submit to the
      International Frequency Registration Board seasonal schedules for
      the broadcasting stations in Palau in the bands allocated
      exclusively to the broadcasting service between 5,950 and 26,100
      kHz and in any other additional frequency bands that may be
      allocated to use by high frequency broadcasting stations; and
        "(2) the United States Federal Communications Commission has
      jurisdiction, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, 47
      U.S.C. 151 et seq., and the Communications Satellite Act of 1962,
      47 U.S.C. 721 et seq., over all domestic and foreign
      communications services furnished by means of satellite earth
      terminal stations where such stations are owned or operated by
      United States common carriers and are located in Palau.
      "(b) The Government of Palau may elect at any time to undertake
    the functions enumerated in Section 131(a) and previously performed
    by the Government of the United States. Upon such election, the
    Government of the United States shall so notify the International
    Frequency Registration Board and shall take such other actions as
    may be necessary to transfer to the Government of Palau the
    notification authority referred to in Section 131(a) and all rights
    deriving from the previous exercise of any such notification
    authority by the Government of the United States.

      "Section 132
      "The Government of Palau shall permit the Government of the
    United States to operate telecommunications services in Palau to
    the extent necessary to fulfill the obligations of the Government
    of the United States under this Compact in accordance with the
    terms of related agreements which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                                IMMIGRATION                            

      "Section 141
      "(a) Any person in the following categories may enter into,
    lawfully engage in occupations, and establish residence as a
    nonimmigrant in the United States and its territories and
    possessions without regard to paragraphs (14), (20), and (26) of
    section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C.
    1182(a)(14), (20), and (26):
        "(1) a person who, on the day preceding the effective date of
      this Compact, is a citizen of Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands, as defined in Title 53 of the Trust Territory Code in
      force on January 1, 1979, and has become a citizen of Palau;
        "(2) a person who acquires the citizenship of Palau, at birth,
      on or after the effective date of the Constitution of Palau; or
        "(3) a naturalized citizen of Palau, who has been an actual
      resident there for not less than five years after attaining such
      naturalization and who holds a certificate of actual residence.
    Such persons shall be considered to have the permission of the
    Attorney General of the United States to accept employment in the
    United States.
      "(b) The right of such persons to establish habitual residence in
    a territory or possession of the United States may, however, be
    subjected to nondiscriminatory limitations provided for:
        "(1) in statutes or regulations of the United States; or
        "(2) in those statutes or regulations of the territory or
      possession concerned which are authorized by the laws of the
      United States.
      "(c) Section 141(a) does not confer on a citizen of Palau, the
    right to establish the residence necessary for naturalization under
    the Immigration and Nationality Act, or to petition for benefits
    for alien relatives under that Act. Section 141(a), however, shall
    not prevent a citizen of Palau from otherwise acquiring such rights
    or lawful permanent resident alien status in the United States.

      "Section 142
      "(a) Any citizen or national of the United States may enter into,
    lawfully engage in occupations, and reside in Palau, subject to the
    right of that Government to deny entry to or deport any such
    citizen or national as an undesirable alien. A citizen or national
    of the United States may establish habitual residence or domicile
    in Palau only in accordance with the laws of Palau. This subsection
    is without prejudice to the right of the Government of Palau to
    regulate occupations in Palau in a nondiscriminatory manner.
      "(b) With respect to the subject matter of this Section, the
    Government of Palau shall accord to citizens and nationals of the
    United States treatment no less favorable than that accorded to
    citizens of other countries; any denial of entry to or deportation
    of a citizen or national of the United States as an undesirable
    alien must be pursuant to reasonable statutory grounds.

      "Section 143
      "(a) The privileges set forth in Section 141 shall not apply to
    any person who takes an affirmative step to preserve or acquire a
    citizenship or nationality other than that of Palau.
      "(b) Every person having the privileges set forth in Sections 141
    and 142 who possesses a citizenship or nationality other than that
    of Palau or the United States ceases to have these privileges two
    years after the effective date of this Compact, or within six
    months after becoming 21 years of age, whichever comes later,
    unless such person executes an oath of renunciation of that other
    citizenship or nationality.

      "Section 144
      "(a) A citizen or national of the United States who, after
    notification to the Government of the United States of an intention
    to employ such person by the Government of Palau, commences
    employment with that Government shall not be deprived of his United
    States nationality pursuant to Section 349(a)(2) and (a)(4) of the
    Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1481(a)(2) and (a)(4).
      "(b) Upon such notification by the Government of Palau, the
    Government of the United States may consult with or provide
    information to the notifying Government concerning the prospective
    employee, subject to the provisions of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C.
    552a.
      "(c) The requirement of prior notification shall not apply to
    those citizens or nationals of the United States who are employed
    by the Government of Palau on the effective date of this Compact
    with respect to the positions held by them at that time.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "REPRESENTATION                          

      "Section 151
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    may establish and maintain representative offices in the capitals
    of the other.

      "Section 152
      "(a) The premises of such representatives [sic] offices, and
    their archives wherever located, shall be inviolable. The property
    and assets of such representative offices shall be immune from
    search, requisition, attachment and any form of seizure unless such
    immunity is expressly waived. Official communications in transit
    shall be inviolable and accorded the freedom and protections
    accorded by recognized principles of intentional [sic] law to
    official communications of a diplomatic mission.
      "(b) Persons designated by the sending Government may serve in
    the capacity of its resident representatives with the consent of
    the receiving Government. Such designated persons shall be immune
    from civil and criminal process relating to words spoken or written
    and all acts performed by them in their official capacity and
    falling within their functions as such representatives, except
    insofar as such immunity may be expressly waived by the sending
    Government. While serving in a resident representative capacity,
    such designated persons shall not be liable to arrest or detention
    pending trial, except in the case of a grave crime and pursuant to
    a decision by a competent judicial authority, and such persons
    shall enjoy immunity from seizure of personal property, immigration
    restrictions, and laws relating to alien registration,
    fingerprinting, and the registration of foreign agents.
      "(c) The sending Governments and their respective assets, income
    and other property shall be exempt from all direct taxes, except
    those direct taxes representing payment for specific goods and
    services, and shall be exempt from all customs duties and
    restrictions on the import or export of articles required for the
    official functions and personal use of their representatives and
    representative offices.
      "(d) Persons designated by the sending Government to serve in the
    capacity of its resident representatives shall enjoy the same
    taxation exemptions as are set forth in Article 34 of the Vienna
    Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
      "(e) The privileges, exemptions and immunities accorded under
    this Section are not for the personal benefit of the individuals
    concerned but are to safeguard the independent exercise of their
    official functions. Without prejudice to those privileges,
    exemptions and immunities, it is the duty of all such persons to
    respect the laws and regulations of the Government to which they
    are assigned.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                         "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                     

      "Section 161
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    declare that it is their policy to promote efforts to prevent or
    eliminate damage to the environment and biosphere and to enrich
    understanding of the natural resources of the Palau.

      "Section 162
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau agree that with respect to the activities of the Government
    of the United States in Palau, and with respect to substantively
    equivalent activities of the Government of Palau, each of the
    Governments shall be bound by such environmental protection
    standards as may be mutually agreed for the purpose of carrying out
    the policy set forth in this Compact.

      "Section 163
      "In order to carry out the policy set forth in this Article, the
    Government of the United States and the Government of Palau agree
    to the following undertakings.
      "(a) The Government of the United States:
        "(1) shall apply environmental standards substantively similar
      to those in effect on the day preceding the effective date of
      this Compact to any activity requiring the preparation of an
      Environmental Impact Statement under the provisions of the
      National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 83 Stat. 852, 42
      U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
        "(2) shall develop, prior to conducting any activity included
      within the category described in this Section, appropriate
      mechanisms, including regulations or other standards and
      procedures, to regulate such activity in Palau in a manner
      appropriate to the special governmental relationship set forth in
      this Compact. The Government of the United States shall provide
      the Government of Palau with the opportunity to comment formally
      during the development of such mechanisms.
      "(b) The Government of Palau shall develop standards and
    procedures to protect the environment of Palau. As a reciprocal
    obligation to the undertakings of the Government of the United
    States under this Article, the Government of Palau, taking into
    account the particular environment of Palau, shall develop
    standards for environmental protection substantively similar to
    those required of the Government of the United States by Section
    163(a)(1) prior to conducting activities in Palau substantively
    equivalent to activities conducted there by the Government of the
    United States and, as a further reciprocal obligation, shall
    enforce those standards.
      "(c) Section 163(a), including any standard or procedure
    applicable thereunder, and Section 163(b) may be modified or
    superseded in whole or in part by agreement of the Government of
    the United States and the Government of Palau.
      "(d) Disputes arising under this Article, except for Section
    163(e), shall be resolved exclusively in accordance with Article II
    of Title Four.
      "(e) The President of the United States may exempt any of the
    activities of the Government of the United States under this
    Compact and its related agreements from any environmental standard
    or procedure which may be applicable under this Article if the
    President determines it to be in the paramount interest of the
    Government of the United States to do so, consistent with Title
    Three of this Compact and the obligations of the Government of the
    United States under international law. Prior to any decision
    pursuant to this subsection, the views of the Government of Palau
    shall be sought and considered to the extent practicable. If the
    President grants such an exemption, to the extent practicable, a
    report with his reasons for granting such exemption shall be given
    promptly to the Government of Palau.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                         "GENERAL LEGAL PROVISIONS                     

      "Section 171
      "Except as provided in this Compact or its related agreements,
    the application of the laws of the United States to the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands by virtue of the Trusteeship
    Agreement ceases with respect to Palau as of the effective date of
    this Compact.

      "Section 172
      "(a) Every citizen of Palau who is not a resident of the United
    States shall enjoy the rights and remedies under the laws of the
    United States enjoyed by any nonresident alien.
      "(b) The Government and every citizen of Palau shall be
    considered a 'person' within the meaning of the Freedom of
    Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, and of the judicial review
    provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 701-706.

      "Section 173
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau,
    agree to adopt and enforce such measures, consistent with this
    Compact and its related agreements, as may be necessary to protect
    the personnel, property, installations, services, programs and
    official archives and documents maintained by the Government of the
    United States in Palau pursuant to this Compact and its related
    agreements and by that Government in the United States pursuant to
    this Compact and its related agreements.

      "Section 174
      "Except as otherwise provided in this Compact and its related
    agreements:
      "(a) The Government of Palau shall be immune from the
    jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the Government
    of the United States shall be immune from the jurisdiction of the
    courts of Palau.
      "(b) The Government of the United States accepts responsibility
    for and shall pay:
        "(1) any unpaid money judgment rendered by the High Court of
      the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands against the Government
      of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government
      of the United States with regard to any cause of action arising
      as a result of acts or omissions of the Government of the Trust
      Territory of the Pacific Islands or the Government of the United
      States prior to the effective date of this Compact;
        "(2) any claim settled by the claimant and the Government of
      the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands but not paid as of the
      effective date of this Compact; and
        "(3) settlement of any administrative claim or of any action
      before a court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
      pending as of the effective date of this Compact, against the
      Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or the
      Government of the United States, arising as a result of acts or
      omissions of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
      Islands or the Government of the United States.
      "(c) Any claim not referred to in Section 174(b) and arising from
    an act or omission of the Government of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands or the Government of the United States prior to the
    effective date of this Compact shall be adjudicated in the same
    manner as a claim adjudicated according to Section 174(d). In any
    claim against the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, the Government of the United States shall stand in the
    place of the Government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands. A judgment on any claim referred to in Section 174(b) or
    this subsection, not otherwise satisfied by the Government of the
    United States, may be presented for certification to the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, or its successor
    court, which shall have jurisdiction therefor, notwithstanding the
    provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1502, and which court's decisions shall be
    reviewable as provided by the laws of the United States. The United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall certify such
    judgment, and order payment thereof, unless it finds, after a
    hearing, that such judgment is manifestly erroneous as to law or
    fact, or manifestly excessive. In either of such cases the United
    States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit shall have
    jurisdiction to modify such judgment.
      "(d) The Government of Palau, shall not be immune from the
    jurisdiction of the courts of the United States, and the Government
    of the United States shall not be immune from the jurisdiction of
    the courts of Palau in any case in which the action is based on a
    commercial activity of the defendant Government carried out where
    the action is brought, or in a case in which damages are sought for
    personal injury or death or damage to or loss of property occurring
    where the action is brought. This subsection shall apply only to
    actions based on commercial activities entered into or injuries or
    losses suffered on or after the effective date of this Compact.

      "Section 175
      "A separate agreement, which shall come into effect
    simultaneously with this Compact, shall be concluded between the
    Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    regarding mutual assistance and cooperation in law enforcement
    matters including the pursuit, capture, imprisonment and
    extradition of fugitives from justice and the transfer of
    prisoners. The separate agreement shall have the force of law. In
    the United States, the laws of the United States governing
    international extradition, including 18 U.S.C. 3184, 3186 and 3188-
    3195, shall be applicable to the extradition of fugitives under
    the separate agreement, and the laws of the United States governing
    the transfer of prisoners, including 18 U.S.C. 4100-4115, shall be
    applicable to the transfer of prisoners under the separate
    agreement.

      "Section 176
      "The Government of Palau confirms that final judgments in civil
    cases rendered by any court of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands shall continue in full force and effect, subject to the
    constitutional power of the courts of Palau to grant relief from
    judgments in appropriate cases.

      "Section 177
      "(a) Federal agencies of the Government of the United States
    which provide services and related programs in Palau are authorized
    to settle and pay tort claims arising in Palau from the activities
    of such agencies or from the acts or omissions of the employees of
    such agencies. Except as provided in Section 177(b), the provisions
    of 28 U.S.C. 2672 and 31 U.S.C. 1304 shall apply exclusively to
    such administrative settlements and payments.
      "(b) Claims under Section 177(a) which cannot be settled under
    Section 177(a) shall be disposed of exclusively in accordance with
    Article II of Title Four. Arbitration awards rendered pursuant to
    this subsection shall be paid out of funds under 31 U.S.C. 1304.
      "(c) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau shall provide for:
        "(1) the administrative settlement of claims referred to in
      Section 177(a), including designation of local agents in Palau,
      such agents to be empowered to accept, investigate and settle
      such claims, in a timely manner, as provided in such related
      agreements; and
        "(2) arbitration, referred to in Section 177(b), in a timely
      manner, at a site convenient to the claimant, in the event a
      claim is not otherwise settled pursuant to Section 177(a).
      "(d) The provisions of Section 174(d) shall not apply to claims
    covered by this Section.

                                "TITLE TWO                            

                            "ECONOMIC RELATIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                             "GRANT ASSISTANCE                         

      "Section 211
      "In order to assist the Government of Palau in its efforts to
    advance the well-being of the people of Palau and in recognition of
    the special relationship that exists between the United States and
    Palau, the Government of the United States shall provide to the
    Government of Palau on a grant basis the following amounts:
      "(a) $12 million annually for ten years commencing on the
    effective date of this Compact, and $11 million annually for five
    years commencing on the tenth anniversary of the effective date of
    this Compact, for current account operations and maintenance
    purposes, which amounts commencing on the fourth anniversary of the
    effective date of this Compact shall include a minimum annual
    distribution of $5 million from the fund specified in Section
    211(f).
      "(b) $2 million annually for fourteen years commencing on the
    first anniversary of the effective date of this Compact as a
    contribution to efforts aimed at achieving increased self-
    sufficiency in energy production, of which annual amounts not less
    than $500,000 shall be devoted to the energy needs of those parts
    of Palau not served by its central power-generating facility.
      "(c) $150,000 annually for fifteen years commencing on the
    effective date of this Compact as a contribution to current account
    operations and maintenance of communications systems, and the sum
    of $1.5 million, to be made available concurrently with the grant
    assistance provided during the first year after the effective date
    of this Compact, for the purpose of acquiring such communications
    hardware as may be located within Palau or for such other current
    or capital account activity as the Government of Palau may select.
      "(d) $631,000 annually on a current account basis for fifteen
    years commencing on the effective date of this Compact for the
    purposes set forth below:
        "(1) for the surveillance and enforcement by Government of
      Palau of its maritime zone;
        "(2) for health and medical programs, including referrals to
      hospital and treatment centers; and
        "(3) for a scholarship fund to support the post-secondary
      education of citizens of Palau attending United States
      accredited, post-secondary institutions in Palau, the United
      States, its territories and possessions, and states in free
      association with the United States. The curricular criteria for
      the award of scholarships shall be designed to advance the
      purposes of the plan referred to in Section 231.
      "(e) The sum of $666,800 as a contribution to the commencement of
    activities pursuant to Section 211(d)(1).
      "(f) The sum of $66 million on the effective date of this
    Compact, and the sum of $4 million concurrently with the grant
    assistance to be made available during the third year after the
    effective date of this Compact, to create a fund to be invested by
    the Government of Palau in issues of bonds, notes or other
    redeemable instruments of the Government of the United States or
    other qualified instruments which may be identified by mutual
    agreement of the Government of the United States and the Government
    of Palau. Investment of the fund in qualified instruments of United
    States nationality, and the distribution of sums derived from such
    investment to the Government of Palau, shall not be subject to any
    form of taxation by the United States or its political
    subdivisions. The Government of the United States and the
    Government of Palau shall set forth in a separate agreement, which
    shall come into effect simultaneously with this Compact, provisions
    for the investment, management and review of the fund so as to
    allow for an agreed minimum annual distribution from its accrued
    principal and interest commencing upon the effective date of this
    Compact for fifty years. The objective of this sum is to produce an
    average annual distribution of $15 million commencing on the
    fifteenth anniversary of this Compact for thirty-five years. Any
    excess or variance from the agreed minimum annual distributions
    which may be produced from these sums shall accrue to or be
    absorbed by the Government of Palau unless otherwise mutually
    agreed in accordance with the provisions of the separate agreement
    referred to in this paragraph. The annual distributions produced
    from these sums are not subject to Sections 215 and 236.

      "Section 212
      "In order to assist the Government of Palau in its efforts to
    advance the economic development and self-sufficiency of the people
    of Palau and in recognition of the special relationship that exists
    between the United States and Palau, the Government of the United
    States shall provide:
      "(a) To the people of Palau, a road system in accordance with
    mutually agreed specifications, the construction of which shall be
    completed prior to the sixth anniversary of the effective date of
    this Compact; and
      "(b) To the Government of Palau, the sum of $36 million, during
    the first year after the effective date of this Compact, for
    capital account purposes.

      "Section 213
      "The Government of the United States shall provide on a grant
    basis to the Government of Palau the sum of $5.5 million in
    conjunction with Article II of Title Three. This sum shall be made
    available concurrently with the grant assistance provided pursuant
    to this Article during the first year after the effective date of
    this Compact. The Government of Palau, in its use of such funds,
    shall take into account the impact of the activities of the
    Government of the United States in Palau.

      "Section 214
      "All funds previously appropriated to the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands for the Government of Palau which are unobligated
    by the Government of the Trust Territory as of the effective date
    of this Compact shall accrue to the Government of Palau for the
    purposes for which such funds were originally appropriated as
    determined by the Government of the United States.

      "Section 215
      "Except as otherwise provided, the amounts stated in Sections
    211(a), 211(b), 211(c) and 212(b) shall be adjusted for each fiscal
    year by the percent which equals two-thirds of the percentage
    change in the United States Gross National Product Implicit Price
    Deflator, or seven percent, whichever is less in any one year,
    using the beginning of Fiscal Year 1981 as the base.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                            "PROGRAM ASSISTANCE                        

      "Section 221
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    Palau, in accordance with and to the extent provided in the
    separate agreement referred to in Section 232, without compensation
    and at the levels equivalent to those available to the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands during the year prior to the
    effective date of this Compact, the services and related programs:
        "(1) of the United States Weather Service;
        "(2) provided pursuant to the Postal Reorganization Act, 39
      U.S.C. 101 et seq.;
        "(3) of the United States Federal Aviation Administration; and
        "(4) of the United States Civil Aeronautics Board or its
      successor agencies which has the authority to implement the
      provisions of paragraph 5 of Article IX of such separate
      agreements, the language of which is incorporated into this
      Compact.
      "(b) The Government of the United States, recognizing the special
    needs of the Palau [sic] particularly in the fields of education
    and health care, shall make available, as provided by the laws of
    the United States,
        "(1) the annual amount of $2 million which shall be allocated
      in accordance with the provisions of the separate agreement
      referred to in Section 232; and
        "(2) the sums of $4.3 million, $2.9 million and $1.5 million,
      respectively, during the first, second and third years after the
      effective date of this Compact, which sums shall be used by the
      Government of Palau as current account funds to finance programs
      similar to those programs of the United States that applied to
      Palau prior to the effective date of this Compact and that
      provided financial assistance for education to any institution,
      agency, organization or permanent resident of Palau or to the
      College of Micronesia.
      "(c) The Government of the United States shall make available to
    Palau such alternate energy development projects, studies and
    conservation measures as are applicable to the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands on the day preceding the effective date of this
    Compact, for the purposes and duration provided in the laws of the
    United States.
      "(d) The Government of the United States shall have and exercise
    such authority as is necessary for the purposes of this Article and
    as is set forth in the related agreements referred to in Section
    232, which shall also set forth the extent to which services and
    programs shall be provided to Palau.

      "Section 222
      "The Government of Palau may request, from time to time,
    technical assistance from the Federal agencies and institutions of
    the Government of the United States, which are authorized to grant
    such technical assistance in accordance with its law and which
    shall grant such technical assistance in a manner which gives
    priority consideration to Palau over other recipients not a part of
    the United States, its territories or possessions and equivalent
    consideration to Palau with respect to other states in Free
    Association with the United States.

      "Section 223
      "The citizens of Palau who are receiving post-secondary education
    assistance from the Government of the United States on the day
    preceding the effective date of this Compact shall continue to be
    eligible, if otherwise qualified, to receive such assistance to
    complete their academic programs for a maximum of four years after
    the effective date of this Compact.

      "Section 224
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    may agree from time to time to the extension to Palau of additional
    United States grant assistance and of United States services and
    programs as provided by the laws of the United States.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                        "ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS                    

      "Section 231
      "(a) The annual expenditure by the Government of Palau of the
    grant amounts specified in Article I of this Title shall be in
    accordance with an official national development plan promulgated
    by the Government of Palau and concurred in by the Government of
    the United States prior to the effective date of this Compact. This
    plan may be amended from time to time by the Government of Palau.
      "(b) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau recognize that the achievement of the goals of the plan
    referred to in this Section depends upon the availability of
    adequate internal revenue as well as economic assistance from
    sources outside of Palau, including the Government of the United
    States, and may, in addition, be affected by the impact of
    exceptional, economically adverse circumstances. The Government of
    Palau shall therefore report annually to the President of the
    United States and to the Congress of the United States on the
    implementation of this plan and on its use of the funds specified
    in this Article. This report shall outline the achievements of the
    plan to date and the need, if any, for an additional authorization
    and appropriation of economic assistance for that year to account
    for any exceptional, economically adverse circumstances. The
    availability of such additional economic assistance from the
    Government of the United States shall be subject to the
    authorization and appropriation of funds by the Government of the
    United States.

      "Section 232
      "The specific nature, extent and contractual arrangements of the
    services and programs provided for in Section 221 as well as the
    legal status of agencies of the Government of the United States,
    their civilian employees and contractors, and the dependents of
    such personnel while present in Palau, and other arrangements in
    connection with a service or program furnished by the Government of
    the United States, are set forth in related agreements which shall
    come into effect simultaneously with this Compact.

      "Section 233
      "The Government of the United States, in consultation with the
    Government of Palau, shall determine and implement procedures for
    the periodic audit of all grants and other assistance made under
    this Title. Such audits shall be conducted at no cost to the
    Government of Palau.

      "Section 234
      "Title to the property of the Government of the United States
    situated in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and in Palau
    or acquired for or used by the Government of the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands on or before the day preceding the effective
    date of this Compact shall, without reimbursement or transfer of
    funds, vest in the Government of Palau as set forth in a separate
    agreement which shall come into effect simultaneously with this
    Compact. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to the
    personal property of the Government of the United States for which
    the Government of the United States determines a continuing
    requirement.

      "Section 235
      "(a) Funds held in trust by the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, in his official capacity, as of
    the effective date of this Compact shall remain available as trust
    funds to their designated beneficiaries. The Government of the
    United States, in consultation with the Government of Palau, shall
    appoint a new trustee who shall exercise the functions formerly
    exercised by the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the
    Pacific Islands.
      "(b) To provide for the continuity of administration, and to
    assure the Governments [sic] of Palau that the purposes of the laws
    of the United States are carried out and that the funds of any
    other trust fund in which the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands has authority of a statutory or
    customary nature shall remain available as trust funds to their
    designated beneficiaries, the Government of the United States
    agrees to assume the authority formerly vested in the High
    Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

      "Section 236
      "Except as otherwise provided, approval of this Compact by the
    Government of the United States shall constitute a pledge of the
    full faith and credit of the United States for the full payment of
    the sums and amounts specified in Article I of this Title. The
    obligation of the Government of the United States under Article I
    of this Title shall be enforceable in the United States Claims
    Court [now United States Court of Federal Claims], or its successor
    court, which shall have jurisdiction in cases arising under this
    Section, notwithstanding the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1502, and
    which court's decisions shall be reviewable as provided by the laws
    of the United States.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                                  "TRADE                              

      "Section 241
      "Palau is not included in the customs territory of the United
    States.

      "Section 242
      "The President of the United States shall proclaim the following
    tariff treatment for articles imported from Palau which shall apply
    during the period of effectiveness of this Title:
      "(a) Unless otherwise excluded, articles imported from Palau,
    subject to the limitations imposed under sections 503(b) and 504(c)
    of title 5 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2463(b): 2464(c)),
    shall be exempt from duty.
      "(b) Only canned tuna provided for in item 112.30 of the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States that is imported from the Federated
    States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands and Palau during any
    calendar year not to exceed 10 percent of the United States
    consumption of canned tuna during the immediately preceding
    calendar year, as reported by the National Marine Fisheries
    Service, shall be exempt from duty; but the quantity of tuna given
    duty free treatment under this paragraph for any calendar year
    shall be counted against the aggregate quantity of canned tuna that
    is dutiable under rate column numbered 1 of such item 112.30 for
    that calendar year.
      "(c) The duty-free treatment provided under paragraph (1) shall
    not apply to:
        "(1) watches, clocks and timing apparatus provided for in sub-
      part E of part 2 of schedule 7 of the Tariff Schedules of the
      United States;
        "(2) buttons (whether finished or not finished) provided for in
      item 745.32 of such Schedules;
        "(3) textile and apparel articles which are subject to textile
      agreements; and
        "(4) footwear, handbags, luggage, flat goods, work gloves, and
      leather wearing apparel which were not eligible articles for
      purposes of title V of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2461 et
      seq.) on April 1, 1984.
      "(d) If the cost or value of materials produced in the customs
    territory of the United States is included with respect to an
    eligible article which is a product of Palau, an amount not to
    exceed 15 percent of the appraised value of the article at the time
    it is entered that is attributable to such United States cost or
    value may be applied for duty assessment purposes toward
    determining the percentage referred to in section 503(b)(2) of
    title V of the Trade Act of 1974.

      "Section 243
      "Articles imported from Palau which are not exempt from any duty
    under paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 242 shall be
    subject to the rates of duty set forth in column numbered 1 of the
    Tariff Schedules of the United States and all products of the
    United States imported into Palau shall receive treatment no less
    favorable than that accorded like products of any foreign country
    with respect to customs duties or charges of a similar nature and
    with respect to laws and regulations relating to importation,
    exportation, taxation, sale, distribution, storage, or use.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                           "FINANCE AND TAXATION                       

      "Section 251
      "The currency of the United States is the official circulating
    legal tender of Palau. Should the Government of Palau act to
    institute another currency, the terms of an appropriate currency
    transitional period shall be as agreed with the Government of the
    United States.

      "Section 252
      "The Government of Palau may, with respect to United States
    persons, tax income derived from sources within its respective
    jurisdiction, property situated therein, including transfers of
    such property by gift or at death, and products consumed therein,
    in such manner as such Government deems appropriate. The
    determination of the source of any income, or the situs of any
    property, shall, for purposes of this Compact, be made according to
    the United States Internal Revenue Code.

      "Section 253
      "A citizen of Palau, domiciled therein and who is a nonresident
    and not a citizen of the United States, shall be exempt from
    estate, gift, and generation-skipping transfer taxes imposed by the
    Government of the United States.

      "Section 254
      "(a) In determining any income tax imposed by the Government of
    Palau, the Government of Palau shall have authority to impose tax
    upon income derived by a resident of Palau from sources without
    Palau in the same manner and to the same extent as the Government
    of Palau imposes tax upon income derived from within its
    jurisdiction. If the Government of Palau exercises such authority
    as provided in this subsection, any individual resident of Palau
    who is subject to tax by the Government of the United States on
    income which is also taxed by the Government of Palau shall be
    relieved of liability to the Government of the United States for
    the tax which, but for this subsection, would otherwise be imposed
    by the Government of the United States on such income. For purposes
    of this Section, the term 'resident of Palau' shall be deemed to
    include any person who was physically present in Palau for a period
    of 183 or more days during any taxable year. The relief from
    liability referred to in this subsection means only:
        "(1) relief in the form of the foreign tax credit (or deduction
      in lieu thereof) available with respect to the income taxes of a
      possession of the United States, and
        "(2) relief in the form of the exclusion under section 911 of
      the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
      "(b) If the Government of Palau subjects income to taxation
    substantially similar to that imposed by the Trust Territory Code
    in effect on January 1, 1980, such Government shall be deemed to
    have exercised the authority described in Section 254(a).

      "Section 255
      "(a) For purposes of section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1954 Palau shall be treated as if it was a possession of the United
    States.
      "(b) Subsection (a) of this Section shall not apply to Palau for
    any period after December 31, 1986, during which there is not in
    effect between Palau and the United States an exchange of
    information agreement of the kind described in section 274(h)(6)(C)
    (other than clause (ii) thereof) of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1954.
      "(c) If the tax incentives extended to Palau under subsection (a)
    of this Section are, at any time during which the Compact is in
    effect, reduced, the United States Secretary of the Treasury shall
    negotiate an agreement with the Government of Palau under which,
    when such agreement is approved by law, Palau will be provided with
    benefits substantially equivalent to such reduction in benefits. If
    within the 1-year period after the date of the enactment of the Act
    making the reduction in benefits, an agreement negotiated under the
    preceding sentence is not approved by law, the matter shall be
    submitted to the Arbitration Board established pursuant to Section
    424. For purposes of Article V of this Title, the Secretary of the
    Treasury or his delegate shall be the member of such Board
    representing the Government of the United States. Any decision of
    such Board in the matter when approved by law shall be binding on
    the United States, except that such decision rendered is binding
    only as to whether the United States has provided the substantially
    equivalent benefits referred to in this subsection.
      "(d) For purposes of section 274(h)(3)(A) of the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1954, the term 'North American area' shall include Palau.

      "Section 256
      "This Article shall apply to income earned, and transactions
    occurring, after September 30, 1985, in taxable years ending after
    such date.

                               "TITLE THREE                           

                      "SECURITY AND DEFENSE RELATIONS                  

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY                   

      "Section 311
      "The territorial jurisdiction of the Republic of Palau shall be
    completely foreclosed to the military forces and personnel or for
    the military purposes of any nation except the United States of
    America, and as provided for in Section 312.

      "Section 312
      "The Government of the United States has full authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    Palau. Subject to the terms of any agreements negotiated pursuant
    to Article II of this Title, the Government of the United States
    may conduct within the lands, water and airspace of Palau the
    activities and operations necessary for the exercise of its
    authority and responsibility under this Title. The Government of
    the United States may invite the armed forces of other nations to
    use military areas and facilities in Palau in conjunction with and
    under the control of United States Armed Forces.

      "Section 313
      "The Government of Palau shall refrain from actions which the
    Government of the United States determines, after consultation with
    that Government, to be incompatible with its authority and
    responsibility for security and defense matters in or relating to
    Palau.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                    "DEFENSE SITES AND OPERATING RIGHTS                

      "Section 321
      "The Government of the United States may establish and use
    defense sites in Palau, and may designate for this purpose land and
    water areas and improvements in accordance with the provisions of a
    separate agreement which shall come into force simultaneously with
    this Compact.

      "Section 322
      "(a) When the Government of the United States desires to
    establish or use such a defense site specifically identified in the
    separate agreement referred to in Section 321, it shall so inform
    the Government of Palau which shall make the designated site
    available to the Government of the United States for the duration
    and level of use specified.
      "(b) With respect to any site not specifically identified in the
    separate agreement referred to in Section 321, the Government of
    the United States shall inform the Government of Palau, which shall
    make the designated site available to the Government of the United
    States for the duration and level of use specified, or shall make
    available one alternative site acceptable to the Government of the
    United States. If such alternative site is unacceptable to the
    Government of the United States, the site first designated shall be
    made available after such determination.
      "(c) Compensation in full for designation, establishment or use
    of defense sites is provided in Title Two of this Compact.

      "Section 323
      "The military operating rights of the Government of the United
    States and the legal status and contractual arrangements of the
    United States Armed Forces, their members, and associated
    civilians, while present in Palau, are set forth in related
    agreements which shall come into effect simultaneously with this
    Compact.

      "Section 324
      "In the exercise in Palau of its authority and responsibility
    under this Title, the Government of the United States shall not
    use, test, store or dispose of nuclear, toxic chemical, gas or
    biological weapons intended for use in warfare and the Government
    of Palau assures the Government of the United States that in
    carrying out its security and defense responsibilities under this
    Title, the Government of the United States has the right to operate
    nuclear capable or nuclear propelled vessels and aircraft within
    the jurisdiction of Palau without either confirming or denying the
    presence or absence of such weapons within the jurisdiction of
    Palau.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

          "DEFENSE TREATIES AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AGREEMENTS      

      "Section 331
      "Subject to the terms of this Compact and its related agreements,
    the Government of the United States, exclusively, shall assume and
    enjoy, as to Palau, all obligations, responsibilities, rights and
    benefits of:
      "(a) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    applied by the Government of the United States as administering
    authority of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as of the
    day preceding the effective date of this Compact; and
      "(b) Any defense treaty or other international security agreement
    to which the Government of the United States is or may become a
    party which it determines to be applicable in Palau. Such a
    determination by the Government of the United States shall be
    preceded by appropriate consultation with the Government of Palau.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

             "SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES         

      "Section 341
      "Any citizen of Palau entitled to the privileges of Section 141
    of this Compact shall be eligible to volunteer for service in the
    Armed Forces of the United States, but shall not be subject to
    involuntary induction into military service of the United States so
    long as such person does not establish habitual residence in the
    United States, its territories or possessions.

      "Section 342
      "The Government of the United States shall have enrolled, at any
    one time, at least one qualified student from Palau as may be
    nominated by the Government of Palau, in each of:
      "(a) The United States Coast Guard Academy pursuant to 14 U.S.C.
    195; and
      "(b) The United States Merchant Marine Academy pursuant to
    [former] 46 U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6) [see 46 U.S.C. 51304],
    provided that the provisions of 46 U.S.C. [App.] 1295b(b)(6)(C)
    [now 46 U.S.C. 51304(b)(2)] shall not apply to the enrollment of
    students pursuant to Section 342(b) of this Compact.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

      "Section 351
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau shall establish a joint committee empowered to consider
    disputes which may arise under the implementation of this Title and
    its related agreements.
      "(b) The membership of the joint committee shall comprise
    selected senior officials of each of the participating Governments.
    The senior United States military commander in the Pacific area
    shall be the senior United States member of the joint committee.
    For the meetings of the joint committee, each of the Governments
    may designate additional or alternate representatives as
    appropriate for the subject matter under consideration.
      "(c) Unless otherwise mutually agreed, the joint committee shall
    meet semi-annually at a time and place to be designated, after
    appropriate consultation, by the Government of the United States.
    The joint committee also shall meet promptly upon request of either
    of its members. Upon notification by the Government of the United
    States, the joint committee shall meet promptly in combined session
    with other such joint committees so notified. The joint committee
    shall follow such procedures, including the establishment of
    functional subcommittees, as the members may from time to time
    agree.
      "(d) Unresolved issues in the joint committee shall be referred
    to the Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    for resolution, and the Government of Palau shall be afforded, on
    an expeditious basis, an opportunity to raise its concerns with the
    United States Secretary of Defense personally regarding any
    unresolved issue which threatens its continued association with the
    Government of the United States.

      "Section 352
      "In the exercise of its authority and responsibility under this
    Compact, the Government of the United States shall accord due
    respect to the authority and responsibility of the Government of
    Palau under this Compact and to the responsibility of the
    Government of Palau to assure the well-being of Palau and its
    people. The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau agree that the authority and responsibility of the United
    States set forth in this Title are exercised for the mutual
    security and benefit of Palau and the United States, and that any
    attack on Palau would constitute a threat to the peace and security
    of the entire region and a danger to the United States. In the
    event of such an attack, or threat thereof, the Government of the
    United States would take action to meet the danger to the United
    States and Palau in accordance with its constitutional processes.

      "Section 353
      "(a) The Government of the United States shall not include the
    Government of Palau as a named party to a formal declaration of
    war, without the consent of the Government of Palau.
      "(b) Absent such consent, this Compact is without prejudice, on
    the ground of belligerence or the existence of a state of war, to
    any claims for damages which are advanced by the citizens,
    nationals or Government of Palau which arise out of armed conflict
    subsequent to the effective date of this Compact and which are:
        "(1) petitions to the Government of the United States for
      redress; or
        "(2) claims in any manner against the government, citizens,
      nationals or entities of any third country.
      "(c) Petitions under Section 353(b)(1) shall be treated as if
    they were made by citizens of the United States.

                                "TITLE FOUR                            

                            "GENERAL PROVISIONS                        

                                "ARTICLE I                            

                       "APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE                   

      "Section 411
      "This Compact shall come into effect upon mutual agreement
    between the Government of the United States, acting in fulfillment
    of its responsibilities as Administering Authority of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Government of Palau,
    subsequent to completion of the following:
      "(a) Approval by the Government of Palau in accordance with its
    constitutional processes;
      "(b) Approval by the people of Palau in a referendum called on
    this Compact; and
      "(c) Approval by the Government of the United States in
    accordance with its constitutional processes.

                                "ARTICLE II                            

                    "CONFERENCE AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION                

      "Section 421
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    shall confer promptly at the request of the other on matters
    relating to the provisions of this Compact or of its related
    agreements.

      "Section 422
      "In the event the Government of the United States or the
    Government of Palau, after conferring pursuant to Section 421,
    determines that there is a dispute and gives written notice
    thereof, the Governments shall make a good faith effort to resolve
    the dispute among themselves.

      "Section 423
      "If a dispute between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of Palau cannot be resolved within 90 days of written
    notification in the manner provided in Section 422, either party to
    the dispute may refer it to arbitration in accordance with Section
    424.

      "Section 424
      "Should a dispute be referred to arbitration as provided for in
    Section 423, an arbitration board shall be established for the
    purpose of hearing the dispute and rendering a decision which shall
    be binding upon the two parties to the dispute unless the two
    parties mutually agree that the decision shall be advisory.
    Arbitration shall occur according to the following terms:
      "(a) An arbitration board shall consist of a chairman and two
    other members, each of whom shall be a citizen of a party to the
    dispute and each of the two parties to the dispute shall appoint
    one member to the arbitration board. If either party to the dispute
    does not fulfill the appointment requirements of this Section
    within 30 days of referral of the dispute to arbitration pursuant
    to Section 423, its member on the arbitration board shall be
    selected from its own standing list by the other party to the
    dispute. Each government shall maintain a standing list of 10
    candidates. The parties to the dispute shall jointly appoint a
    chairman within 15 days after selection of the other members of the
    arbitration board. Failing agreement on a chairman, the chairman
    shall be chosen by lot from the standing lists of the parties to
    the dispute within 5 days after such failure.
      "(b) The arbitration board shall have jurisdiction to hear and
    render its final determination on all disputes arising exclusively
    under Articles I, II, III, IV, and VI of Title One, Title Two,
    Title Four and their related agreements.
      "(c) Each member of the arbitration board shall have one vote.
    Each decision of the arbitration board shall be reached by majority
    vote.
      "(d) In determining any legal issue, the arbitration board may
    have reference to international law and, in such reference, shall
    apply as guidelines the provisions set forth in Article 38 of the
    Statute of the International Court of Justice.
      "(e) The arbitration board shall adopt such rules for its
    proceedings as it may deem appropriate and necessary, but such
    rules shall not contravene the provisions of this Compact. Unless
    the parties provide otherwise by mutual agreement, the arbitration
    board shall endeavor to render its decision within 30 days after
    the conclusion of arguments. The arbitration board shall make
    findings of fact and conclusions of law and its members may issue
    dissenting or individual opinions. Except as may be otherwise
    decided by the arbitration board, one-half of all costs of the
    arbitration shall be borne by the Government of the United States
    and the remainder shall be borne by the Government of Palau.

                               "ARTICLE III                           

                           "AMENDMENT AND REVIEW                       

      "Section 431
      "The provisions of this Compact may be amended at any time by
    mutual agreement of the Government of the United States and the
    Government of Palau in accordance with their respective
    constitutional processes.

      "Section 432
      "Upon the fifteenth and thirtieth and fortieth anniversaries of
    the effective date of this Compact, the Government of the United
    States and the Government of Palau shall formally review the terms
    of this Compact and its related agreements and shall consider the
    overall nature and development of their relationship. In these
    formal reviews, the governments shall consider the operating
    requirements of the Government of Palau and its progress in meeting
    the development objectives set forth in the plan referred to in
    Section 231(a). The governments commit themselves to take specific
    measures in relation to the findings of conclusions resulting from
    the review. Any alteration to the terms of this Compact or its
    related agreements shall be made by mutual agreement and the terms
    of this Compact and its related agreements shall remain in force
    until otherwise amended or terminated pursuant to Title Four of
    this Compact.

                                "ARTICLE IV                            

                               "TERMINATION                           

      "Section 441
      "This Compact may be terminated by mutual agreement and subject
    to Section 451.

      "Section 442
      "This Compact may be terminated by the Government of the United
    States subject to Section 452, such termination to be effective on
    the date specified in the notice of termination by the Government
    of the United States but not earlier than six months following
    delivery of such notice. The time specified in the notice of
    termination may be extended.

      "Section 443
      "This Compact shall be terminated, pursuant to its constitutional
    processes, by the Government of Palau subject to Section 452 if the
    people of Palau vote in a plebiscite to terminate. The Government
    of Palau shall notify the Government of the United States of its
    intention to call such a plebiscite which shall take place not
    earlier than three months after delivery of such notice. The
    plebiscite shall be administered by such government in accordance
    with its constitutional and legislative processes, but the
    Government of the United States may send its own observers and
    invite observers from a mutually agreed party. If a majority of the
    valid ballots cast in the plebiscite favors termination, such
    government shall, upon certification of the results of the
    plebiscite, give notice of termination to the Government of the
    United States, such termination to be effective on the date
    specified in such notice but not earlier than three months
    following the date of delivery of such notice. The time specified
    in the notice of termination may be extended.

                                "ARTICLE V                            

                              "SURVIVABILITY                          

      "Section 451
      "Should termination occur pursuant to Section 441, economic
    assistance by the Government of the United States shall continue on
    mutually agreed terms.

      "Section 452
      "Should termination occur pursuant to Section 442 or 443, the
    following provisions of this Compact shall remain in full force and
    effect until the fiftieth anniversary of the effective date of this
    Compact and thereafter as mutually agreed:
      "(a) Article I and Section 233 of Title Two;
      "(b) Title Three; and
      "(c) Articles II, III, V and VI of Title Four.

      "Section 453
      "Notwithstanding any other provision of this Compact:
      "(a) The provisions of Section 311, even if Title Three should
    terminate, are binding and shall remain in effect for a period of
    50 years and thereafter until terminated or otherwise amended by
    mutual consent;
      "(b) The related agreements referred to in Article II of Title
    Three shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms; and
      "(c) The Government of the United States reaffirms its continuing
    interest in promoting the long-term economic advancement and self-
    sufficiency of the people of Palau.

      "Section 454
      "Any provision of this Compact which remains in effect by
    operation of Section 452 shall be construed and implemented in the
    same manner as prior to any termination of this Compact pursuant to
    Section 442 or 443.

                                "ARTICLE VI                            

                           "DEFINITION OF TERMS                       

      "Section 461
      "For the purpose of this Compact the following terms shall have
    the following meanings:
      "(a) 'Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' means the area
    established in the Trusteeship Agreement consisting of the
    administrative districts of Kosrae, Yap, Palau, Ponape, the
    Marshall Islands and Truk as described in Title One, Trust
    Territory Code, Section 1, in force on January 1, 1979. This term
    does not include the area of the Northern Mariana Islands.
      "(b) 'Trusteeship Agreement' means the agreement setting forth
    the terms of trusteeship for the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands, approved by the Security Council of the United Nations
    April 2, 1947, and by the United States July 18, 1947, entered into
    force July 18, 1947, 61 Stat. 3301, T.I.A.S. 1665, 8 U.N.T.S. 189.
      "(c) 'Palau' is used in a geographic sense and includes the land
    and water areas to the outer limits of the territorial sea and the
    air space above such areas as now or hereafter recognized by the
    Government of the United States consistent with the Compact and its
    related agreements.
      "(d) 'Government of Palau' means the Government established and
    organized by the Constitution of Palau including all the political
    subdivisions and entities comprising that Government.
      "(e) 'Habitual Residence' means a place of general abode or a
    principal, actual dwelling place of a continuing or lasting nature;
    provided, however, that this term shall not apply to the residence
    of any person who entered the United States for the purpose of full
    time studies as long as such person maintains that status, or who
    has been physically present in the United States or Palau for less
    than one year, or who is a dependent of a resident representative,
    as described in Section 152.
      "(f) For the purposes of Article IV of Title One of this Compact:
        "(1) 'Actual Residence' means physical presence in Palau during
      eighty-five percent of the period of residency required by
      Section 141(a)(3); and
        "(2) 'Certificate of Actual Residence' means a certificate
      issued to a naturalized citizen by the Government which has
      naturalized him stating that the citizen has complied with the
      actual residence requirement of Section 141(a)(3).
      "(g) 'Defense Sites' means those land and water areas and
    improvements thereon in Palau reserved or acquired by the
    Government of Palau for use by the Government of the United States,
    as set forth in the related agreements referred to in Section 321.
      "(h) 'Capital Account' means, for each year of the Compact, those
    portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of
    Title Two, which are to be obligated for:
        "(1) the construction or major repair of capital
      infrastructure; or
        "(2) public and private sector projects identified in the
      official overall economic development plan.
      "(i) 'Current Account' means, for each year of the Compact, those
    portions of the total grant assistance provided in Article I of
    Title Two, which are to be obligated for recurring operational
    activities including infrastructure maintenance as identified in
    the annual budget justifications submitted yearly to the Government
    of the United States.
      "(j) 'Official National Development Plan' means the documented
    program of annual development which identifies the specific policy
    and project activities necessary to achieve a specified set of
    economic goals and objectives during the period of free
    association, consistent with the economic assistance authority in
    Title Two. Such a document should include an analysis of population
    trends, manpower requirements, social needs, gross national product
    estimates, resource utilization, infrastructure needs and
    expenditures, and the specific private sector projects required to
    develop the local economy of Palau. Project identification should
    include initial cost estimates, with project purposes related to
    specific development goals and objectives.
      "(k) 'Tariff Schedules of the United States' means the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States as amended from time to time and as
    promulgated pursuant to United States law and includes the Tariff
    Schedules of the United States Annotated (TSUSA), as amended.
      "(l) 'Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations' means the Vienna
    Convention on Diplomatic Relations, done April 18, 1961, 23 U.S.T.
    3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95.

      "Section 462
      "The Government of the United States and the Government of Palau
    shall conclude related agreements which shall come into effect and
    shall survive in accordance with their terms, and which shall be
    construed and implemented in a manner consistent with this Compact,
    as follows:
      "(a) Agreement Regarding the Provision of Telecommunication
    Services by the Government of the United States to Palau Concluded
    Pursuant to Section 131 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(b) Agreement Regarding the Operation of Telecommunication
    Services of the Government of the United States in Palau, Concluded
    Pursuant to Section 132 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(c) Agreement on Extradition, Mutual Assistance in Law
    Enforcement Matters and Penal Sanctions Concluded Pursuant to
    Section 175 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(d) Agreement Regarding United States Economic Assistance to the
    Government of Palau Concluded Pursuant to Section 211(f) of the
    Compact of Free Association;
      "(e) Agreement Regarding Construction Projects in Palau Concluded
    Pursuant to Section 212(a) of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(f) Agreement Regarding Federal Programs and Services, and
    Concluded Pursuant to Article II of Title Two and Section 232 of
    the Compact of Free Association;
      "(g) Agreement Regarding Property Turnover, Concluded Pursuant to
    Section 234 of the Compact of Free Association;
      "(h) Agreement Regarding the Military Use and Operating Rights of
    the Government of the United States in Palau Concluded Pursuant to
    Sections 321 and 322 of the Compact of Free Association; and
      "(i) Status of Forces Agreement Concluded Pursuant to Section 323
    of the Compact of Free Association.
      "(j) Agreement regarding the Jurisdication [sic] and Sovereignty
    of the Republic of Palau over its Territory and the Living and Non-
    living Resources of the Sea.

                               "ARTICLE VII                           

                          "CONCLUDING PROVISIONS                      

      "Section 471
      "(a) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau agree that they have full authority under their respective
    constitutions to enter into this Compact and its related agreements
    and to fulfill all of their respective responsibilities in
    accordance with the terms of this Compact and its related
    agreements. The Governments pledge that they are so committed.
      "(b) The Government of the United States and the Government of
    Palau shall take all necessary steps, of a general or particular
    character, to ensure, not later than the effective date of this
    Compact, that their laws, regulations and administrative procedures
    are such as to effect the commitments referred to in Section
    471(a).
      "(c) Without prejudice to the effects of this Compact under
    international law, this Compact has the force and effect of a
    statute under the laws of the United States.

      "Section 472
      "This Compact may be accepted, by signature or otherwise, by the
    Government of the United States and the Government of Palau. Each
    government shall possess an original English language version.
      "IN WITNESS THEREOF, the undersigned, duly authorized, have
    signed this Compact of Free Association which shall come into
    effect in accordance with its terms between the Government of the
    United States and the Government of Palau.

                     "DONE AT __________, THIS ___ DAY                 

               "OF __, ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY-FIVE           

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                       "THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA                   

                               "____________                           

                     "DONE AT __________, THIS ___ DAY                 

               "OF __, ONE THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED EIGHTY-FIVE           

                            "FOR THE GOVERNMENT                        

                                    "OF                                

                          "THE REPUBLIC OF PALAU                      

                              "____________".                          
      [For transfer of authorities, functions, personnel, and assets of
    the Coast Guard, including the authorities and functions of the
    Secretary of Transportation relating thereto, to the Department of
    Homeland Security, and for treatment of related references, see
    sections 468(b), 551(d), 552(d), and 557 of Title 6, Domestic
    Security, and the Department of Homeland Security Reorganization
    Plan of November 25, 2002, as modified, set out as a note under
    section 542 of Title 6.]


-EXEC-
    PROC. NO. 6726. PLACING INTO FULL FORCE AND EFFECT COMPACT OF FREE
                    ASSOCIATION WITH REPUBLIC OF PALAU
      Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777, provided:
      Since July 18, 1947, the United States has administered the
    United Nations Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands ("Trust
    Territory"), which has included the Northern Mariana Islands, the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
      On November 3, 1986, a Covenant between the United States and the
    Northern Mariana Islands [48 U.S.C. 1801 note] came into force.
    This Covenant established the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands as a self-governing Commonwealth in political union with
    and under the sovereignty of the United States.
      On October 21, 1986, in the case of the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands, and on November 3, 1986, in the case of the Federated
    States of Micronesia, Compacts of Free Association with the United
    States [48 U.S.C. 1901 note] became effective. Under the Compacts,
    the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall
    Islands became self-governing sovereign states, in free association
    with the United States. Following the changes in political status
    of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, and the
    Federated States of Micronesia, the Trusteeship Agreement ceased to
    be applicable to those entities and only Palau remained as the
    Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.
      On January 10, 1986, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of Palau concluded a Compact of Free Association [set
    out above] similar to those that the United States entered into
    with the Republic of the Marshall Islands and with the Federated
    States of Micronesia. As in those instances, it was specified that
    the Compact with Palau would come into effect upon (1) mutual
    agreement between the Government of the United States, acting in
    fulfillment of its responsibilities as Administering Authority of
    the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Government of
    Palau; (2) the approval of the Compact by the two Governments, in
    accordance with their constitutional processes; and (3) the
    approval of the Compact by plebiscite in Palau.
      In Palau the Compact has been approved by the Government in
    accordance with its constitutional processes and by a United
    Nations-observed plebiscite on November 9, 1993, a sovereign act of
    self-determination. In the United States the Compact was approved
    by Public Law 99-658 of November 14, 1986 [48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.],
    and Public Law 101-219 of December 12, 1989 [48 U.S.C. 1951 et
    seq.].
      On May 25, 1994, the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations
    concluded that the Government of the United States had
    satisfactorily discharged its obligations as the Administering
    Authority under the terms of the Trusteeship Agreement and that the
    people of Palau had freely exercised their right to self-
    determination and considered that it was appropriate for the
    Trusteeship Agreement to be terminated. The Council asked the
    United States to consult with the Government of Palau and to agree
    on a date, on or about October 1, 1994, for entry into force of
    their new status agreement.
      On July 15, 1994, the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of Palau agreed, pursuant to section 411
    of the Compact of Free Association, that as between the United
    States and the Republic of Palau, the effective date of the Compact
    shall be October 1, 1994.
      As of this day, September 27, 1994, the United States has
    fulfilled its obligations under the Trusteeship Agreement with
    respect to the Republic of Palau. On October 1, 1994, the Compact
    will enter into force between the United States and the Republic of
    Palau, and Palau will thereafter be self-governing and no longer
    subject to the Trusteeship. In taking these actions, the United
    States is implementing the freely expressed wishes of the people of
    Palau.
      NOW, THEREFORE, I, WILLIAM J. CLINTON, President of the United
    States of America, by the authority vested in me by the
    Constitution and laws of the United States, including sections 101
    and 102 of the Joint Resolution to approve the "Compact of Free
    Association" between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    and for other purposes, approved on November 14, 1986 (Public Law
    99-658) [48 U.S.C. 1931, 1932], and section 101 of the Joint
    Resolution to authorize entry into force of the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    and for other purposes, approved on December 12, 1989 (Public Law
    101-219) [48 U.S.C. 1951], and pursuant to section 1002 of the
    Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands in Political Union with the United States of America [48
    U.S.C. 1801 note], and consistent with sections 101 and 102 of the
    Joint Resolution to approve the "Compact of Free Association" and
    for other purposes, approved on January 14, 1986 (Public Law 99-
    239) [48 U.S.C. 1901, 1902], do hereby find, declare, and proclaim
    as follows:
      Section 1. I determine that the Trusteeship Agreement for the
    Pacific Islands will be no longer in effect with respect to the
    Republic of Palau as of October 1, 1994, at one minute past one
    o'clock p.m. local time in Palau. This constitutes the
    determination referred to in section 1002 of the Covenant with the
    Northern Mariana Islands (Public Law 94-241).
      Sec. 2. The Compact of Free Association with the Republic of
    Palau will be in full force and effect as of October 1, 1994, at
    one minute past one o'clock p.m. local time in Palau.
      Sec. 3. I am gratified that the people of the Republic of Palau,
    after 47 years of Trusteeship, have freely chosen to establish a
    relationship of Free Association with the United States.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-
    seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred
    and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of
    America the two hundred and nineteenth.
                                                     William J. Clinton.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "or".

    (!2) So in original. Probably should be subsection "(c)".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1932                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental Provisions

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1932. Extension of Compact of Free Association to Palau

-STATUTE-
      (a) The interpretation of and United States Policy Regarding the
    Compact of Free Association set forth in section 1904 of this title
    shall apply to the Compact of Free Association with Palau.
      (b) The provisions of section 1905 of this title, except for
    subsection (i), section 1906 of this title, section 1910 of this
    title, and section 1911(a) and (d) of this title shall apply to
    Palau in the same manner and to the same extent as such sections
    apply to the Marshall Islands.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-658, title I, Sec. 102, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3675.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association with Palau, referred to in
    subsec. (a), is the Compact of Free Association between the United
    States and the Government of Palau, which is contained in section
    201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a note under section 1931 of this
    title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1933                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental Provisions

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1933. Supplemental provisions

-STATUTE-
    (a) Civic Action Teams
      (1) In recognition of the special development needs of Palau and
    the Marshall Islands, the United States shall make available United
    States military Civic Action Teams for use in Palau or the Marshall
    Islands under terms and conditions mutually agreed upon by the
    Government of the United States and the Governments of Palau or the
    Marshall Islands, as appropriate. The Government of Palau may use
    the amount of $250,000 annually from current account funds provided
    pursuant to section 211 of the Compact to defray expenditures
    attendant to the operation of the Civic Action Teams made available
    pursuant to this subsection. The Government of the Marshall Islands
    may use the amount of $250,000 annually from current account funds
    provided under section 211 of Title Two of the Compact of Free
    Association with the Marshall Islands to defray expenditures
    attendant to the operation of the Civic Action Teams made available
    pursuant to this subsection.
      (2) For expenditures that the Department of Defense makes
    pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may accept up
    to the amount of $250,000 in annual funds from the Government of
    Palau as specified in paragraph (1). Funds accepted by the
    Secretary from the Government of Palau under this paragraph shall
    be credited to and merged with appropriations available to the
    Department of Defense and shall be used to defray expenditures
    attendant to the operation of the United States military Civic
    Action Team in Palau. Funds so credited and merged shall be
    available for the same time period as the appropriations to which
    the funds are credited and merged.
    (b) Inventory and study of natural, historic, and other resources
      The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct, upon request of
    Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands,
    and through the Director of the National Park Service, a
    comprehensive inventory and study of the most unique and
    significant natural, historical, cultural, and recreational
    resources of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia or the
    Marshall Islands. Areas or sites exhibiting such qualities shall be
    described and evaluated with the objective of the preservation of
    their values and their careful use and appreciation by the public,
    along with a determination of their potential for attracting
    tourism. Alternative methodologies for such preservation and use
    shall be developed for each area or site (including continued
    assistance from the National Park Service); current or impending
    damage or threats to the resources of such areas or sites shall be
    identified and evaluated; and authorities needed to properly
    protect and allow for public use and appreciation shall be
    identified and discussed. Such inventory and study shall be
    conducted in full cooperation and consultation with affected
    governmental officials and the interested public. A full report on
    such inventory and study shall be transmitted to Palau or the
    Federated States of Micronesia or the Marshall Islands, the
    Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States
    House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural
    Resources of the United States Senate no later than two complete
    calendar years after November 14, 1986. The inventory and study
    shall also identify areas or sites which, if they were located in
    the United States, would qualify to be listed on the Registry of
    Natural Landmarks and the National Register of Historic Places.
    (c) Omitted
    (d) Peleliu and Angaur
      Not later than one year after November 14, 1986, the Secretary of
    Agriculture, after appropriate studies conducted in consultation
    with the Government of Palau, shall report to the President and the
    Congress concerning the feasibility and cost of rehabilitating and
    restoring the fertility of the topsoil of the islands of Peleliu
    and Angaur. Upon the request of the Government of Palau, the
    President shall make the report of the Secretary of Agriculture
    available to the Government of Palau. Technical assistance to
    accomplish such rehabilitation and restoration, if feasible, may be
    provided to the Government of Palau on a nonreimbursable basis,
    subject to the availability of appropriated funds.
    (e) Power generation
      Neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor any other officer or
    agent of the United States shall pay or transfer any portion of the
    sum and amounts payable to the Government of Palau pursuant to this
    joint resolution to any party other than the Government of Palau,
    except under the procedures established by the Compact and its
    related agreements. No funds appropriated pursuant to the Compact,
    this Act, or any other Act for grants or other assistance to Palau
    may be used to satisfy any obligation or expense incurred by Palau
    prior to November 14, 1986, with respect to any contract or debt
    related to any electrical generating plant or related facilities
    entered into or incurred by Palau which has not been specifically
    authorized by Congress in advance, except that the Government of
    Palau may use any portion of the annual grant under section 211(b)
    (!1) not required to be devoted to the energy needs of those parts
    of Palau not served by its central power generating facilities and
    any portion of the funds under section 212(b) of the Compact for
    such purpose.

    (f) Reduction of appropriations
      Amounts appropriated to be paid pursuant to section 177 of
    Article I of Title One or Articles I and III of Title Two of the
    Compact of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Marshall Islands, as set forth in Title II of the Compact
    of Free Association Act of 1985, or pursuant to section 103(h),
    103(k), or 105(m) of such Act [48 U.S.C. 1903(h), (k), 1905(m)]
    (Public Law 99-239), or pursuant to Article I of Title Two of the
    Compact with Palau, as set forth in Title II of this joint
    resolution, or subsection (l) (!2) of this section shall not be
    reduced, notwithstanding Public Law 99-177, Public Law 99-366, and
    other law enacted to implement Public Law 99-177, or any other
    provision of law.

    (g) Understandings, interpretations, and policy statements
      The Congress reaffirms all of the understandings,
    interpretations, and policy statements contained in Public Law 99-
    239 (99 Stat. 1770) [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.].
    Congressional Resolution 4-60 adopted by the 4th Congress of the
    Federated States of Micronesia on March 26, 1986 and Resolution No.
    62 adopted by the Nitijela of the Marshall Islands on February 18,
    1986 do not exclude, limit or modify any provision of the Compact
    of Free Association as approved by the United States. To the extent
    that any understandings, interpretations, and policy statements
    contained in such Resolutions are inconsistent with the provisions
    of Public Law 99-239, the United States does not concur therein.
    The President shall take such steps, including but not limited to,
    communicating with the Governments of the Federated States of
    Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, as may be
    necessary to preserve all rights of the United States in connection
    with interpretation and implementation of such Public Law.
    (h) Additional provisions relating to Title Three of Compact
      (1) The Government of the United States recognizes and respects
    the scarcity and special importance of land in Palau. In making any
    designation of land pursuant to section 322 of the Compact, the
    Government of the United States shall follow the policy of
    requesting the minimum area necessary to accomplish the required
    security and defense purpose, of requesting only the minimum
    interest in real property necessary to support such purpose, and of
    requesting first to satisfy the requirement through public real
    property, where available, rather than through private real
    property.
      (2) The Armed Forces of other nations invited to use military
    areas and facilities in Palau pursuant to section 312 of the
    Compact shall be permitted only as it is incident to the authority
    and under the control of the United States. The activities of such
    third country forces shall be subject to the same limitations and
    restrictions applicable to the authority of the United States under
    the terms of the Compact.
      (3) The Government of the United States considers "Exclusive use"
    areas established for the United States pursuant to Title Three of
    the Compact to be "within the jurisdiction of Palau," as that term
    is used in section 324 of the Compact.
    (i) Availability of appropriations
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds appropriated
    for the Compact of Free Association, Public Law 99-239 [48 U.S.C.
    1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.], or this joint resolution, in the act
    of making supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1986, shall
    remain available until expended.
    (j) Authority to contract or make payments
      (1), (2) Omitted
      (3) No authority under this subsection to enter into contracts or
    to make payments shall be effective except to the extent and in
    such amounts as provided in advance in appropriations Acts. Any
    provision of this subsection which authorizes the enactment of new
    budget authority shall be effective only for fiscal years beginning
    after September 30, 1985.
    (k) Annual report
      The Departments of Energy and Interior are directed to provide
    the Committees on Appropriations of the House and Senate with a
    report by December 1 of each fiscal year detailing how funds were
    spent during the previous fiscal year for the special medical care
    and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik and for the
    agriculture and food programs for Eniwetok and Bikini as referenced
    in Section 103(h) of Public Law 99-239 [48 U.S.C. 1903(h)]. The
    report shall also specify the anticipated needs during the current
    and following fiscal years in order to meet the radiological health
    care and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik and the
    planting, agricultural maintenance, and food programs for Eniwetok
    and Bikini. It is the sense of the Congress that the special
    medical care and logistical support program for Rongelap and Utrik
    and for the agriculture and food programs for Eniwetok and Bikini
    described in section 103(h) of Public Law 99-239 represent special
    and continuing moral commitments of the United States which will be
    annually funded to the extent of the need of the populations of
    such atolls for such assistance.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-658, title I, Sec. 104, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3675;
    Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 105, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1871;
    Pub. L. 110-181, div. A, title XII, Sec. 1253, Jan. 28, 2008, 122
    Stat. 402.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a
    note under section 1931 of this title.
      The Compact of Free Association with the Marshall Islands and the
    Compact of Free Association with the Federated States of Micronesia
    and the Marshall Islands, referred to in subsecs. (a)(1) and (f),
    respectively, are contained in the Compact of Free Association,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, set out as a
    note under section 1901 of this title.
      This joint resolution and this Act, referred to in subsecs. (e),
    (f), and (i), is Pub. L. 99-658, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as
    amended, which is classified generally to this part. Title II of
    this joint resolution enacted section 1934 of this title and
    provisions set out as a note under section 1931 of this title. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 and Public Law 99-
    239, referred to in subsecs. (f), (g), and (i), is Pub. L. 99-239,
    Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, which is classified
    principally to part A of subchapter I of this chapter and chapter
    19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Short Title note set out under section
    1901 of this title and Tables.
      Public Law 99-177, referred to in subsec. (f), is Pub. L. 99-177,
    Dec. 12, 1985, 99 Stat. 1037, as amended. For complete
    classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 99-366, referred to in subsec. (f), is Pub. L. 99-366,
    July 31, 1986, 100 Stat. 773. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association, referred to in subsecs. (g) and
    (i), probably means the Compact of Free Association between the
    Government of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, which is contained
    in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, set out as a note under section
    1901 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.
      Section is comprised of section 104 of Pub. L. 99-658. Subsec.
    (c) of section 104 of Pub. L. 99-658 amended section 1905 of this
    title. Subsec. (j)(1) and (2) of section 104 of Pub. L. 99-658
    amended sections 460ff-3 and 460ff-5 of Title 16, Conservation.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2008 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 110-181 designated existing
    provisions as par. (1) and added par. (2).
      1989 - Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 101-219 amended subsec. (e)
    generally. Prior to amendment, subsec. (e) read as follows:
    "Neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor any other officer or
    agent of the United States shall pay or transfer any portion of the
    sums and amounts payable to the Government of Palau pursuant to
    this joint resolution to any party other than the Government of
    Palau. The provisions of section 174(a) of the Compact shall apply
    with respect to any action based on a contract or debt related to
    any electrical generating plant or related facilities entered into
    or incurred by Palau prior to the date of enactment of this joint
    resolution."

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of
    Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House
    of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third
    Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be followed by "of the
         Compact".

    (!2) So in original. This section does not contain a subsec.
         (l).


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1934                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part A - Approval of Compact and Supplemental Provisions

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1934. Jurisdiction

-STATUTE-
    (a) Maritime and territorial jurisdiction
      With respect to section 321 of the Compact of Free Association
    and its related agreements, the jurisdictional provisions set forth
    in subsection (b) of this section shall apply only to the citizens
    and nationals of the United States and aliens lawfully admitted to
    the United States for permanent residence who are in Palau.
    (b) Defense sites
      The defense sites of the United States established in Palau in
    accordance with the Compact of Free Association and its related
    agreements are within the special maritime and territorial
    jurisdiction of the United States as set forth in section 7, title
    18.
    (c) Offenses
      (1) Any person referred to in subsection (a) of this section who
    within or upon such defense sites is guilty of any act or omission
    which, although not made punishable by any enactment of Congress,
    would be punishable if committed or omitted within the jurisdiction
    of the territory of Guam by the laws thereof, in force at the time
    of such act or omission, shall be guilty of a like offense and
    subject to a like punishment.
      (2) The District Court of Guam shall have jurisdiction to try all
    criminal offenses against the United States, including the laws of
    Guam made applicable to the defense sites in Palau by virtue of
    subsection (c)(1) of this section, committed by any person referred
    to in subsection (a) of this section.
      (3) The District Court of Guam may appoint one or more magistrate
    judges for the defense sites in Palau. Such Magistrate Judges shall
    have the power and the status of Magistrate Judges appointed
    pursuant to chapter 43, title 28: Provided however, That such
    Magistrate Judges shall have the power to try persons accused of,
    and sentence persons convicted of, petty offenses, as defined in
    section 1(3),(!1) title 18, including violations of regulations for
    the maintenance of peace, order, and health issued by the
    Commanding Officer on such defense sites, without being subject to
    the restrictions provided for in section 3401(b), title 18.


-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-658, title II, Sec. 202, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3704;
    Pub. L. 101-650, title III, Sec. 321, Dec. 1, 1990, 104 Stat.
    5117.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association, referred to in subsecs. (a) and
    (b), is the Compact of Free Association between the United States
    and the Government of Palau, which is contained in section 201 of
    Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a note under section 1931 of this title.
      Section 1 of title 18, referred to in subsec. (c)(3), was
    repealed by Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 218(a)(1), Oct. 12,
    1984, 98 Stat. 2027.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.
      Section was enacted as part of title II of Pub. L. 99-658, not as
    part of title I of Pub. L. 99-658 which comprises this part.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Words "magistrate judges" and "Magistrate Judges" substituted for
    "magistrates" and "Magistrates", respectively, wherever appearing
    in subsec. (c)(3) pursuant to section 321 of Pub. L. 101-650, set
    out as a note under section 631 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC Part B - Implementation of Compact                   02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
                    PART B - IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPACT                

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1951                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1951. Entry into force of Compact

-STATUTE-
      Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 101(d)(1)(B) of Public
    Law 99-658 [48 U.S.C. 1931(d)(1)(B)], entry into force of the
    Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau
    (set forth in title II of Public Law 99-658 and hereafter in this
    joint resolution referred to as the "Compact") in accordance with
    subsections (a) and (d) of section 101 of Public Law 99-658 (100
    Stat. 3673) [48 U.S.C. 1931(a), (d)] is hereby authorized - 
        (1) subject to the condition that the Compact, as approved by
      the Congress in Public Law 99-658, is approved by the requisite
      percentage of the votes cast in a referendum conducted pursuant
      to the Constitution of Palau, and such approval is free from any
      legal challenge, and
        (2) upon expiration of 30 days, in which either the House of
      Representatives or the Senate of the United States is in session,
      after the President notifies the Committees on Interior and
      Insular Affairs and Foreign Affairs of the House of
      Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
      of the Senate of the effective date of the Compact.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 101, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1870.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-658, Nov.
    14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified generally
    to part A of this subchapter. Title II of Pub. L. 99-658 enacted
    section 1934 of this title and provisions set out as a note under
    section 1931 of this title. For complete classification of this Act
    to the Code, see Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association between the United States and
    Palau, referred to in text, is contained in section 201 of Pub. L.
    99-658, set out as a note under section 1931 of this title.
      This joint resolution, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 101-219,
    Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1870, which enacted this part and sections
    1846 and 1972 of this title, amended sections 1615 and 1933 of this
    title and section 3791 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare,
    and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1905 of
    Title 44, Public Printing and Documents. For complete
    classification of this joint resolution to the Code, see Tables.
      For Oct. 1, 1994, as the effective date of the Compact, referred
    to in par. (2), see Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777,
    set out as a note under section 1931 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of
    Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House
    of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third
    Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1952                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1952. Fiscal procedures assistance

-STATUTE-
      Upon request of the Government of Palau, the Secretary of the
    Interior shall provide assistance to the Government of Palau to
    develop and promulgate regulations for the effective expenditure of
    funds received pursuant to this joint resolution, Public Laws 99-
    658 [48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.] and 99-239 [48 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.,
    2001 et seq.], or any other Act of Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 102, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1870.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This joint resolution, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 101-219,
    Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1870, which enacted this part and sections
    1846 and 1972 of this title, amended sections 1615 and 1933 of this
    title and section 3791 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare,
    and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1905 of
    Title 44, Public Printing and Documents. For complete
    classification of this joint resolution to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-658, Nov.
    14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified generally
    to part A of this subchapter. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 99-239, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan.
    14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free
    Association Act of 1985, which is classified principally to part A
    of subchapter I of this chapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.)
    of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1953                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1953. Antidrug program

-STATUTE-
    (a) Plan
      The Department of the Interior shall develop, in cooperation with
    the Government of Palau and the National Drug Control Policy
    Office, a plan for an antidrug program in Palau. The plan shall be
    submitted to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs,
    Foreign Affairs, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives
    and the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources and
    Appropriations of the Senate by April 1, 1990. The plan shall: (1)
    identify the specific needs and costs of such an antidrug program;
    (2) shall identify all existing resources to be allocated for its
    implementation by the Government of the United States and the
    Government of Palau; and (3) shall recommend priority use for
    additional resources, assuming such resources are made available.
    (b) Agreement
      Following completion of the plan, the President and the
    Government of Palau shall negotiate an agreement to facilitate
    implementation of the plan. Such agreement may include - 
        (1) that the Government of Palau may request, on a long-term or
      case-by-case basis, that the officers of United States law
      enforcement agencies may conduct investigations consistent with
      implementation of the plan in cooperation with the law
      enforcement agencies of the Government of Palau;
        (2) that the Government of Palau or the Government of the
      United States may agree to provide specific resources, on a one-
      time or a multiyear basis, to strengthen the antidrug program;
      and
        (3) a specific description of the technical assistance,
      training, and equipment to be provided to Palau by the United
      States necessary to implement the plan.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 103, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1870.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-CHANGE-
                              CHANGE OF NAME                          
      Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of House of
    Representatives changed to Committee on Natural Resources of House
    of Representatives by House Resolution No. 5, One Hundred Third
    Congress, Jan. 5, 1993.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1954                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1954. Public auditor and special prosecutor

-STATUTE-
      (a) (!1) Upon request of the Government of Palau the President
    shall provide, on a nonreimbursable basis, appropriate technical
    assistance to the public auditor or special prosecutor. The
    assistance provided pursuant to this subsection for the first five
    years after the effective date of the Compact shall, upon the
    request of the Government of Palau, and to the extent personnel are
    available, include (but not be limited to) the full time services
    of - 

        (1) an auditor or accountant, as determined by the public
      auditor, for the office of public auditor; and
        (2) an attorney or investigator, as determined by the special
      prosecutor, for the office of special prosecutor.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 104, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1871.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      For Oct. 1, 1994, as the effective date of the Compact, referred
    to in text, see Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set
    out as a note under section 1931 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. No subsec. (b) has been enacted.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1955                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1955. Audit certification

-STATUTE-
      The chief officer of any agency conducting an audit pursuant to
    paragraph (1) of sections 1902(c) and 1903(m) of this title and
    section 1931(d)(1)(C) of this title shall certify that audit.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 106, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1871.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1956                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1956. Acquisition of defense sites

-STATUTE-
      The provisions of title III of the Compact relating to future use
    by the United States of defense sites in Palau do not restrict the
    authority of the President of the United States to - 
        (1) request additional funding, subject to appropriation,
      related to the use of privately owned land in Palau pursuant to
      article II of title III of the Compact as may be appropriate in
      light of actual land use requirements, independent appraisals of
      such privately owned land accepted by both governments, and other
      appropriate documentation of actual land use costs; and
        (2) consent to an extension of the time set forth in a
      subsidiary agreement to such article in which the Government of
      Palau is required to make such land available to the United
      States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 107, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1872.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a
    note under section 1931 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1957                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1957. Federal programs coordination personnel

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary of the Interior shall station at least one
    professional staff person in each of the Offices of the United
    States Representatives in the Republic of Palau, the Federated
    States of Micronesia, and the Republic of the Marshall Islands to
    provide Federal program coordination and technical assistance to
    such governments as authorized under Public Laws 99-239 [48 U.S.C.
    1901 et seq., 2001 et seq.] and 99-658 [48 U.S.C. 1931 et seq.]. In
    meeting the purposes of this section the Secretary shall select
    qualified persons following consultations with the Interagency
    Group on Freely Associated State Affairs.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 108, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1872.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Public Law 99-239, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan.
    14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of Free
    Association Act of 1985, which is classified principally to part A
    of subchapter I of this chapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.)
    of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the Code,
    see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of this title and
    Tables.
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 99-658, Nov.
    14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified generally
    to part A of this subchapter. For complete classification of this
    Act to the Code, see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1958                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1958. Referendum costs

-STATUTE-
      The Secretary of the Interior shall provide such sums as may be
    necessary for a further referendum on approval of the Compact, if
    one is required, or other appropriate costs associated with the
    approval process in Palau.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 109, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1872.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a
    note under section 1931 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1959                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1959. Agreements

-STATUTE-
    (a) Effective date of certain agreements
      An agreement between the United States and the Government of the
    Republic of Palau consistent with the agreements approved by Public
    Law 101-62 (101 (!1) Stat. 162) shall take effect without further
    authorization thirty days after submission to Congress.

    (b) Extensions
      The provisions of article IX, paragraph 5(a) of the Agreement
    referred to in section 462(e) of the Compact of Free Association as
    approved by Public Law 99-239, and article IX, paragraph 5(a) of
    the agreement referred to in section 462(f) of the Compact of Free
    Association for Palau as approved by Public Law 99-658, are
    extended, in accordance with the terms thereof, until October 1,
    1998, unless earlier terminated or further extended by the laws of
    the United States.
    (c) Authorization
      Funding to implement the provisions of this part, and for
    assistance to the central health care facility and the prison in
    Palau, and the offices of Public Auditor and Special Prosecutor as
    proposed in the agreement entitled "Agreement Concerning Special
    Programs related to the Entry into Force of the Compact of Free
    Association Between the Government of the United States and the
    Government of the Republic of Palau" signed on May 26, 1989, shall
    be available pursuant to the authorization in section 105(c) of
    Public Law 99-239 [48 U.S.C. 1905(c)] as referenced by section
    102(b) of Public Law 99-658 [48 U.S.C. 1932(b)] or from funds
    appropriated for technical assistance to the Secretary of the
    Interior.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 110, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1872.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Public Law 101-62, referred to in subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 101-62,
    July 26, 1989, 103 Stat. 162, which is set out as a note under
    section 1901 of this title.
      The Compact of Free Association as approved by Public Law 99-239,
    referred to in subsec. (b), is the Compact of Free Association
    between the Government of the United States and the Governments of
    the Marshall Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, which
    is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, set out as a note
    under section 1901 of this title.
      The Compact of Free Association for Palau as approved by Public
    Law 99-658, referred to in subsec. (b), is the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a
    note under section 1931 of this title.
      Public Law 99-239, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 99-239,
    Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as amended, known as the Compact of
    Free Association Act of 1985, which is classified principally to
    part A of subchapter I of this chapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et
    seq.) of this title. For complete classification of this Act to the
    Code, see Short Title note set out under section 1901 of this title
    and Tables.
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 99-658,
    Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified
    generally to part A of this subchapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      This part, referred to in subsec. (c), was in the original "this
    title", meaning title I of Pub. L. 101-219, Dec. 12, 1989, 103
    Stat. 1870, which enacted this part and amended section 1933 of
    this title. For complete classification of this title to the Code,
    see Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be "103".


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1960                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1960. Modification of energy assistance funding

-STATUTE-
    (a) Fulfillment of United States obligations
      The President is authorized to negotiate and conclude an
    agreement, including the obligation of United States funds, with
    the Government of Palau which shall provide the following:
        (1) The sum of $28,000,000, adjusted by section 215 of the
      Compact at the time of its availability to Palau, shall be
      provided to Palau pursuant to section 211(b) of the Compact and
      upon entry into force of the Compact.
        (2) Palau shall pay to the United States, on or before the 15th
      anniversary of the effective date of the Compact, an amount equal
      to the net economic cost to the United States of making available
      the section 211(b) funds in the manner specified in this
      subsection rather than as provided in section 211(b).
        (3) Such economic cost shall reflect the time value of money
      and be determined using the rate determined for an equivalent
      loan by the Federal Financing Bank as of the date these funds are
      advanced, and using an inflation rate consistent with the
      determinations made under the provisions of section 215 of the
      Compact.
        (4) If the Government of Palau has not paid such net economic
      costs to the United States by the 15th anniversary of the
      effective date of the Compact, then the United States shall be
      automatically paid such sums from the fund established under
      section 211(f) of the Compact.
        (5) The provision of section 211(b) funds, as appropriated by
      Public Law 99-349 and pursuant to this subsection, shall be in
      fulfillment of all United States obligations under such section
      211(b) of the Compact and shall be subject to section 236 of the
      Compact.
    (b) Adjustment and payment
      Subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of this section and
    upon the request of the Government of Palau, the sum of $28 million
    appropriated by Public Law 99-349 to fulfill the obligations of the
    United States under section 211(b) of the Compact (approved in
    Public Law 99-658), adjusted by section 215 of such Compact, shall
    be provided to Palau upon entry into force of the Compact.
    (c) Availability of appropriation account
      Funding provided in Public Law 101-121 under the "Trust Territory
    of the Pacific Islands" appropriation account shall remain
    available until expended.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 111, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1873.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact, referred to in subsecs. (a) and (b), is the Compact
    of Free Association between the United States and the Government of
    Palau, which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out
    as a note under section 1931 of this title.
      For Oct. 1, 1994, as the date the Compact of Free Association
    with Palau entered into full force and effect, referred to in
    subsecs. (a)(1), (2), (4) and (b), see Proc. No. 6726, Sept. 27,
    1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set out as a note under section 1931 of this
    title.
      Public Law 99-349, referred to in subsecs. (a)(5) and (b), is
    Pub. L. 99-349, July 2, 1986, 100 Stat. 710, as amended. For
    complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 99-658, referred to in subsec. (b), is Pub. L. 99-658,
    Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat. 3672, as amended, which is classified
    generally to part A of this subchapter. For complete classification
    of this Act to the Code, see Tables.
      Public Law 101-121, referred to in subsec. (c), is Pub. L. 101-
    121, Oct. 23, 1989, 103 Stat. 701, as amended. Provisions relating
    to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands appear at 103 Stat.
    717. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Tables.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                          PALAU ROAD MAINTENANCE                      
      Pub. L. 110-229, title VIII, Sec. 808, May 8, 2008, 122 Stat.
    874, provided that:
      "The Government of the Republic of Palau may deposit the payment
    otherwise payable to the Government of the United States under
    section 111 of Public Law 101-219 (48 U.S.C. 1960) into a trust
    fund if - 
        "(1) the earnings of the trust fund are expended solely for
      maintenance of the road system constructed pursuant to section
      212 of the Compact of Free Association between the Government of
      the United States of America and the Government of Palau (48
      U.S.C. 1931 note); and
        "(2) the trust fund is established and operated pursuant to an
      agreement entered into between the Government of the United
      States and the Government of the Republic of Palau."

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1961                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1961. Submission of agreements

-STATUTE-
      Any agreement concluded with the Government of Palau pursuant to
    this joint resolution including the agreement entitled "Agreement
    Concerning Special Programs related to the Entry into Force of the
    Compact of Free Association Between the Government of the United
    States and the Government of the Republic of Palau" signed on May
    26, 1989, and any agreement which would amend, change, or terminate
    any such agreement, or portion thereof, shall be submitted to the
    Congress and may not take effect until after 30 days after the date
    on which such agreement is so submitted. An amendment or agreement
    substituting or in addition to the subsidiary agreement negotiated
    under section 212(a) of the Compact or its annex shall take effect
    only when approved by an Act of Congress.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 112, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1873.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      This joint resolution, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 101-219,
    Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat. 1870, which enacted this part and sections
    1846 and 1972 of this title, amended sections 1615 and 1933 of this
    title and section 3791 of Title 42, The Public Health and Welfare,
    and enacted provisions set out as a note under section 1905 of
    Title 44, Public Printing and Documents. For complete
    classification of this joint resolution to the Code, see Tables.
      The Compact, referred to in text, is the Compact of Free
    Association between the United States and the Government of Palau,
    which is contained in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-658, set out as a
    note under section 1931 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1962                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER II - PALAU
    Part B - Implementation of Compact

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1962. Transition funding

-STATUTE-
      For the purposes of applying section 1905(c)(2) of this title to
    Palau, the terms "fiscal year 1987", "fiscal year 1988", and
    "fiscal year 1989" in section 104(c) of Public Law 99-658 shall be
    deemed to be the first, second, and third fiscal years,
    respectively, beginning after the effective date of the Compact.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title I, Sec. 113, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1873.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 104(c) of Public Law 99-658, referred to in text, is
    section 104(c) of Pub. L. 99-658, title I, Nov. 14, 1986, 100 Stat.
    3676, which amended section 1905 of this title.
      For Oct. 1, 1994, as the effective date of the Compact of Free
    Association with Palau referred to in text, see Proc. No. 6726,
    Sept. 27, 1994, 59 F.R. 49777, set out as a note under section 1931
    of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                 SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS             

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1971                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1971. Transfer of surplus personal property owned by United
      States

-STATUTE-
    (a) Transfer to Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, Marshall Islands,
      and Federated States of Micronesia
      Notwithstanding any other provision of law, subject to valid
    existing rights, and subject to subsection (b) of this section, all
    right, title, and interest of the Government of the United States
    in personal property situated in the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands and of the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific
    Islands in personal property wherever located shall be transferred,
    without reimbursement, by a date not later than ninety days
    following termination of the trusteeship agreement governing the
    administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, to
    the government of the Northern Mariana Islands, Palau, the Marshall
    Islands, or the Federated States of Micronesia according to a list
    of distribution established by the High Commissioner of the Trust
    Territory of the Pacific Islands in consultation with the recipient
    government.
    (b) Declaration that property is surplus
      Personal property referred to in subsection (a) of this section
    shall be transferred upon declaration by the High Commissioner of
    the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands that such property is
    surplus to the needs of the government of the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands, which declaration shall be approved, if
    applicable, by the head of the agency of the Government of the
    United States having administrative responsibility for the
    property.
    (c) Property held in trust
      If no government exists in Palau on December 24, 1980, that is
    capable of receiving title to such property in its own name, the
    government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall hold
    such property in trust for the prospective government of Palau
    until such government is established.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-597, title IV, Sec. 402, Dec. 24, 1980, 94 Stat. 3478;
    Pub. L. 97-357, title II, Sec. 201, Oct. 19, 1982, 96 Stat. 1706.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1982 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 97-357, substituted "by a date not
    later than ninety days following termination of the trusteeship
    agreement governing the administration of the Trust Territory of
    the Pacific Islands," for "by October 1, 1982,".


-TRANS-
           TERMINATION OF TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS       
      For termination of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, see
    note set out preceding section 1681 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1972                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1972. Controlled substances in freely associated states

-STATUTE-
    (a) In general
      The President is authorized to negotiate agreements which provide
    - 
        (1) that the United States shall carry out the provisions of
      part C of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 821 et seq.)
      as necessary to provide for the lawful distribution of controlled
      substances in the freely associated states; and
        (2) that a freely associated state which institutes and
      maintains a voluntary system to report annual estimates of
      narcotics needs to the International Narcotics Control Board, and
      which imposes controls on imports of narcotic drugs consistent
      with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, shall be
      eligible for exports of narcotic drugs from the United States in
      the same manner as a country meeting the requirements of
      subsection (a) of section 953 (!1) of title 21.

    (b) Effective date
      Agreements concluded pursuant to this section shall become
    effective pursuant to section 1901(f)(5) of this title or section
    1931(d)(5) of this title, as may be applicable.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 101-219, title II, Sec. 201, Dec. 12, 1989, 103 Stat.
    1874.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Controlled Substances Act, referred to in subsec. (a)(1), is
    title II of Pub. L. 91-513, Oct. 27, 1970, 84 Stat. 1242, as
    amended. Part C of the Act is classified generally to part C (Sec.
    821 et seq.) of subchapter I of chapter 13 of Title 21, Food and
    Drugs. For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see
    Short Title note set out under section 801 of Title 21 and Tables.
      Section 953 of title 21, referred to in subsec. (a)(2), was in
    the original "section 1003 of the Controlled Substances Act", and
    was translated as reading "section 1003 of the Controlled
    Substances Import and Export Act", meaning section 1003 of title
    III of Pub. L. 91-513, to reflect the probable intent of Congress.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) See References in Text note below.


-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 1973                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 18 - MICRONESIA, MARSHALL ISLANDS, AND PALAU
    SUBCHAPTER III - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1973. Freely Associated State Air Carrier

-STATUTE-
      (a) In furtherance of the objectives of the Compact of Free
    Association Act of 1985 (Public Law 99-239) [48 U.S.C. 1901 et
    seq., 2001 et seq.] and notwithstanding any other provision of law,
    a Freely Associated State Air Carrier shall not be precluded from
    providing transportation, between a place in the United States and
    a place in a state in free association with the United States or
    between two places in such a freely associated state, by air of
    persons (and their personal effects) and property procured,
    contracted for, or otherwise obtained by any executive department
    or other agency or instrumentality of the United States for its own
    account or in furtherance of the purposes or pursuant to the terms
    of any contract, agreement, or other special arrangement made or
    entered into under which payment is made by the United States or
    payment is made from funds appropriated, owned, controlled,
    granted, or conditionally granted, or utilized by or otherwise
    established for the account of the United States, or shall be
    furnished to or for the account of any foreign nation, or any
    international agency, or other organization of whatever
    nationality, without provisions for reimbursement.
      (b) The term "Freely Associated State Air Carrier" shall apply
    exclusively to a carrier referred to in Article IX(5)(b) of the
    Federal Programs and Services Agreement concluded pursuant to
    Article II of Title Two and Section 232 of the Compact of Free
    Association.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 102-247, title III, Sec. 303, Feb. 24, 1992, 106 Stat.
    39.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, referred to in
    subsec. (a), is Pub. L. 99-239, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat. 1770, as
    amended, which is classified principally to part A of subchapter I
    of this chapter and chapter 19 (Sec. 2001 et seq.) of this title.
    For complete classification of this Act to the Code, see Short
    Title note set out under section 1901 of this title and Tables.
      The Compact of Free Association, referred to in subsec. (b),
    probably means the Compact of Free Association between the
    Government of the United States and the Governments of the Marshall
    Islands and the Federated States of Micronesia, which is contained
    in section 201 of Pub. L. 99-239, set out as a note under section
    1901 of this title.

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-


-CITE-
    48 USC CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS                  02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS

-HEAD-
                    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS                

-MISC1-
    Sec.                                                     
    2001.       Findings.                                             
    2002.       Reports.                                              
    2003.       Conference.                                           
    2004.       Administrative matters.                               

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 2001                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2001. Findings

-STATUTE-
      The Congress finds that - 
        (1) the United States does not have a clearly defined policy
      for United States noncontiguous Pacific areas (including the
      Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
      Guam, the State of Hawaii, and the State of Alaska) and for
      United States-associated noncontiguous Pacific areas (including
      the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and
      Palau);
        (2) the Federal Government has often failed to consider the
      implications for, effects on, and potential of noncontiguous
      Pacific areas in the formulation and conduct of foreign and
      domestic policy, to the detriment of both the attainment of the
      objectives of Federal policy and noncontiguous Pacific areas;
        (3) policies and programs designed for the United States as a
      whole may impose inappropriate standards on noncontiguous Pacific
      areas because of their unique circumstances and needs; and
        (4) the present Federal organizational arrangements for liaison
      with (and providing assistance to) the insular areas may not be
      adequate - 
          (A) to coordinate the delivery of Federal programs and
        services to noncontiguous Pacific areas;
          (B) to provide a consistent basis for administration of
        programs;
          (C) to adapt policy to the special requirements of each area
        and modify the application of Federal programs, laws, and
        regulations accordingly;
          (D) to be responsive to the Congress in the discharge of its
        responsibilities; and
          (E) to attain the international obligations of the United
        States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title III, Sec. 301, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat.
    1836.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 2002                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2002. Reports

-STATUTE-
    (a) Submission
      Not later than one year after January 14, 1986, and each five
    years thereafter, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation
    with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Congress and the
    President a report on United States noncontiguous Pacific areas
    policy together with such recommendations as may be necessary to
    accomplish the objectives of such policy.
    (b) Contents
      The reports required in subsection (a) of this section shall set
    forth clearly defined policies regarding United States, and United
    States associated, noncontiguous Pacific areas, including - 
        (1) the role of and impacts on the noncontiguous Pacific areas
      in the formulation and conduct of foreign policy;
        (2) the applicability of standards contained in Federal laws,
      regulations, and programs to the noncontiguous Pacific areas and
      any modifications which may be necessary to achieve the intent of
      such laws, regulations, and programs consistent with the unique
      character of the noncontiguous Pacific areas;
        (3) the effectiveness of the Federal executive organizational
      arrangements for - 
          (A) providing liaison between the Federal Government and the
        governments of the noncontiguous Pacific areas;
          (B) coordinating Federal actions in a manner which recognizes
        the unique circumstances and needs of the noncontiguous Pacific
        areas; and
          (C) achieving the objective of Federal policy and ensuring
        that the Congress receives the information necessary to
        discharge its responsibilities; and

        (4) actions which may be needed to facilitate the economic and
      social health and development of the noncontiguous Pacific areas,
      consistent with their self-determined objectives.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title III, Sec. 302, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat.
    1837.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.


-MISC1-
                   TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS               
      For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in this
    section relating to the requirement to submit a report to Congress
    every five years, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amended,
    set out as a note under section 1113 of Title 31, Money and
    Finance, and the 14th item on page 112 of House Document No. 103-7.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 2003                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2003. Conference

-STATUTE-
    (a) Meeting
      Prior to submitting the reports required under section 2002(b) of
    this title, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the
    Secretary of State, shall convene a conference to obtain the views
    of the noncontiguous Pacific areas on the matters required to be
    addressed in such reports.
    (b) Participants
      Representatives of each of the noncontiguous Pacific areas; and
    the heads of all executive departments and agencies, and other
    public and private organizations concerned with the noncontiguous
    Pacific areas as requested by the Secretary of the Interior shall
    be entitled to be participants in the conference.
    (c) Written comments
      The Secretary of the Interior shall afford participants in the
    conference an opportunity to submit written comments for inclusion
    in the reports required under section 2002 of this title.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title III, Sec. 303, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat.
    1837.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-



-CITE-
    48 USC Sec. 2004                                            02/01/2010

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 48 - TERRITORIES AND INSULAR POSSESSIONS
    CHAPTER 19 - PACIFIC POLICY REPORTS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2004. Administrative matters

-STATUTE-
    (a) Administrative support
      The Secretary of the Interior shall provide all necessary
    administrative support to accomplish the requirements of sections
    2002 and 2003 of this title.
    (b) Authorization of appropriations
      There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
    necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 99-239, title III, Sec. 304, Jan. 14, 1986, 99 Stat.
    1837.)

-COD-
                               CODIFICATION                           
      Section was formerly set out as a note under section 1681 of this
    title.

-End-


