-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE 18 - APPENDIX                         01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX

-HEAD-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX


-MISC1-
    Item                                                            Page
    Unlawful Possession or Receipt of Firearms (Repealed)            809
    Interstate Agreement on Detainers (Pub. L. 91-538)               810
    Classified Information Procedures Act (Pub. L. 96-456)           814
    Federal Rules of Evidence                                        821
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure                              822


-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR RECEIPT
      OF FIREARMS                                          01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR RECEIPT OF FIREARMS

-HEAD-
                UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR RECEIPT OF FIREARMS            


-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Secs. 1201 to 1203                          01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OR RECEIPT OF FIREARMS

-HEAD-
    Secs. 1201 to 1203. Repealed.

-MISC1-
    [Secs. 1201 to 1203. Repealed. Pub. L. 99-308, Sec. 104(b), May 19,
      1986, 100 Stat. 459].
      Section 1201, Pub. L. 90-351, title VII, Sec. 1201, June 19,
    1968, 82 Stat. 236; Pub. L. 90-618, title III, Sec. 301(a)(1), Oct.
    22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1236, related to Congressional findings and
    declaration of policy with respect to receipt, possession, or
    transportation of firearms by felons, veterans who are discharged
    under dishonorable conditions, mental incompetents, aliens who are
    illegally in this country, and former citizens who have renounced
    their citizenship.
      Section 1202, Pub. L. 90-351, title VII, Sec. 1202, June 19,
    1968, 82 Stat. 236; Pub. L. 90-618, title III, Sec. 301(a)(2), (b),
    Oct. 22, 1968, 82 Stat. 1236; Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Secs. 1802,
    1803, Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2185, provided penalties for receipt,
    possession, or transportation of firearms in commerce or affecting
    commerce by a convicted felon, dishonorably discharged veteran,
    mental incompetent, former citizen, illegal alien, or by any
    individual employed by such a person, and defined terms used in
    former sections 1201 to 1203 of this Appendix. See section 924 of
    this title.
      Section 1203, Pub. L. 90-351, title VII, Sec. 1203, June 19,
    1968, 82 Stat. 237, related to persons exempt from the provisions
    of former sections 1201 to 1203 of this Appendix.

                         EFFECTIVE DATE OF REPEAL                     
      Sections repealed effective 180 days after May 19, 1986, see
    section 110(a) of Pub. L. 99-308, set out as an Effective Date of
    1986 Amendment note under section 921 of this title.
TITLE 18, APPENDIX - INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS


-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON
      DETAINERS                                            01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
                     INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS                 


-MISC1-
    PUB. L. 91-538, DEC. 9, 1970, 84 STAT. 1397, AS AMENDED BY PUB. L.
       100-690, TITLE VII, SEC. 7059, NOV. 18, 1988, 102 STAT. 4403

                                                                

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 1                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1. Short title

-STATUTE-
      This Act may be cited as the "Interstate Agreement on Detainers
    Act".

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 1, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1397.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 2                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2. Enactment into law of Interstate Agreement on Detainers

-STATUTE-
      The Interstate Agreement on Detainers is hereby enacted into law
    and entered into by the United States on its own behalf and on
    behalf of the District of Columbia with all jurisdictions legally
    joining in substantially the following form:
      "The contracting States solemnly agree that:

                                "ARTICLE I                            
      "The party States find that charges outstanding against a
    prisoner, detainers based on untried indictments, informations, or
    complaints and difficulties in securing speedy trial of persons
    already incarcerated in other jurisdictions, produce uncertainties
    which obstruct programs of prisoner treatment and rehabilitation.
    Accordingly, it is the policy of the party States and the purpose
    of this agreement to encourage the expeditious and orderly
    disposition of such charges and determination of the proper status
    of any and all detainers based on untried indictments,
    informations, or complaints. The party States also find that
    proceedings with reference to such charges and detainers, when
    emanating from another jurisdiction, cannot properly be had in the
    absence of cooperative procedures. It is the further purpose of
    this agreement to provide such cooperative procedures.
                                "ARTICLE II                            
      "As used in this agreement:
      "(a) 'State' shall mean a State of the United States; the United
    States of America; a territory or possession of the United States;
    the District of Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
      "(b) 'Sending State' shall mean a State in which a prisoner is
    incarcerated at the time that he initiates a request for final
    disposition pursuant to article III hereof or at the time that a
    request for custody or availability is initiated pursuant to
    article IV hereof.
      "(c) 'Receiving State' shall mean the State in which trial is to
    be had on an indictment, information, or complaint pursuant to
    article III or article IV hereof.
                               "ARTICLE III                           
      "(a) Whenever a person has entered upon a term of imprisonment in
    a penal or correctional institution of a party State, and whenever
    during the continuance of the term of imprisonment there is pending
    in any other party State any untried indictment, information, or
    complaint on the basis of which a detainer has been lodged against
    the prisoner, he shall be brought to trial within one hundred and
    eighty days after he shall have caused to be delivered to the
    prosecuting officer and the appropriate court of the prosecuting
    officer's jurisdiction written notice of the place of his
    imprisonment and his request for a final disposition to be made of
    the indictment, information, or complaint: Provided, That, for good
    cause shown in open court, the prisoner or his counsel being
    present, the court having jurisdiction of the matter may grant any
    necessary or reasonable continuance. The request of the prisoner
    shall be accompanied by a certificate of the appropriate official
    having custody of the prisoner, stating the term of commitment
    under which the prisoner is being held, the time already served,
    the time remaining to be served on the sentence, the amount of good
    time earned, the time of parole eligibility of the prisoner, and
    any decision of the State parole agency relating to the prisoner.
      "(b) The written notice and request for final disposition
    referred to in paragraph (a) hereof shall be given or sent by the
    prisoner to the warden, commissioner of corrections, or other
    official having custody of him, who shall promptly forward it
    together with the certificate to the appropriate prosecuting
    official and court by registered or certified mail, return receipt
    requested.
      "(c) The warden, commissioner of corrections, or other official
    having custody of the prisoner shall promptly inform him of the
    source and contents of any detainer lodged against him and shall
    also inform him of his right to make a request for final
    disposition of the indictment, information, or complaint on which
    the detainer is based.
      "(d) Any request for final disposition made by a prisoner
    pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof shall operate as a request for
    final disposition of all untried indictments, informations, or
    complaints on the basis of which detainers have been lodged against
    the prisoner from the State to whose prosecuting official the
    request for final disposition is specifically directed. The warden,
    commissioner of corrections, or other official having custody of
    the prisoner shall forthwith notify all appropriate prosecuting
    officers and courts in the several jurisdictions within the State
    to which the prisoner's request for final disposition is being sent
    of the proceeding being initiated by the prisoner. Any notification
    sent pursuant to this paragraph shall be accompanied by copies of
    the prisoner's written notice, request, and the certificate. If
    trial is not had on any indictment, information, or complaint
    contemplated hereby prior to the return of the prisoner to the
    original place of imprisonment, such indictment, information, or
    complaint shall not be of any further force or effect, and the
    court shall enter an order dismissing the same with prejudice.
      "(e) Any request for final disposition made by a prisoner
    pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof shall also be deemed to be a
    waiver of extradition with respect to any charge or proceeding
    contemplated thereby or included therein by reason of paragraph (d)
    hereof, and a waiver of extradition to the receiving State to serve
    any sentence there imposed upon him, after completion of his term
    of imprisonment in the sending State. The request for final
    disposition shall also constitute a consent by the prisoner to the
    production of his body in any court where his presence may be
    required in order to effectuate the purposes of this agreement and
    a further consent voluntarily to be returned to the original place
    of imprisonment in accordance with the provisions of this
    agreement. Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent the imposition
    of a concurrent sentence if otherwise permitted by law.
      "(f) Escape from custody by the prisoner subsequent to his
    execution of the request for final disposition referred to in
    paragraph (a) hereof shall void the request.
                                "ARTICLE IV                            
      "(a) The appropriate officer of the jurisdiction in which an
    untried indictment, information, or complaint is pending shall be
    entitled to have a prisoner against whom he has lodged a detainer
    and who is serving a term of imprisonment in any party State made
    available in accordance with article V(a) hereof upon presentation
    of a written request for temporary custody or availability to the
    appropriate authorities of the State in which the prisoner is
    incarcerated: Provided, That the court having jurisdiction of such
    indictment, information, or complaint shall have duly approved,
    recorded, and transmitted the request: And provided further, That
    there shall be a period of thirty days after receipt by the
    appropriate authorities before the request be honored, within which
    period the Governor of the sending State may disapprove the request
    for temporary custody or availability, either upon his own motion
    or upon motion of the prisoner.
      "(b) Upon request of the officer's written request as provided in
    paragraph (a) hereof, the appropriate authorities having the
    prisoner in custody shall furnish the officer with a certificate
    stating the term of commitment under which the prisoner is being
    held, the time already served, the time remaining to be served on
    the sentence, the amount of good time earned, the time of parole
    eligibility of the prisoner, and any decisions of the State parole
    agency relating to the prisoner. Said authorities simultaneously
    shall furnish all other officers and appropriate courts in the
    receiving State who has lodged detainers against the prisoner with
    similar certificates and with notices informing them of the request
    for custody or availability and of the reasons therefor.
      "(c) In respect of any proceeding made possible by this article,
    trial shall be commenced within one hundred and twenty days of the
    arrival of the prisoner in the receiving State, but for good cause
    shown in open court, the prisoner or his counsel being present, the
    court having jurisdiction of the matter may grant any necessary or
    reasonable continuance.
      "(d) Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to
    deprive any prisoner of any right which he may have to contest the
    legality of his delivery as provided in paragraph (a) hereof, but
    such delivery may not be opposed or denied on the ground that the
    executive authority of the sending State has not affirmatively
    consented to or ordered such delivery.
      "(e) If trial is not had on any indictment, information, or
    complaint contemplated hereby prior to the prisoner's being
    returned to the original place of imprisonment pursuant to article
    V(e) hereof, such indictment, information, or complaint shall not
    be of any further force or effect, and the court shall enter an
    order dismissing the same with prejudice.
                                "ARTICLE V                            
      "(a) In response to a request made under article III or article
    IV hereof, the appropriate authority in a sending State shall offer
    to deliver temporary custody of such prisoner to the appropriate
    authority in the State where such indictment, information, or
    complaint is pending against such person in order that speedy and
    efficient prosecution may be had. If the request for final
    disposition is made by the prisoner, the offer of temporary custody
    shall accompany the written notice provided for in article III of
    this agreement. In the case of a Federal prisoner, the appropriate
    authority in the receiving State shall be entitled to temporary
    custody as provided by this agreement or to the prisoner's presence
    in Federal custody at the place of trial, whichever custodial
    arrangement may be approved by the custodian.
      "(b) The officer or other representative of a State accepting an
    offer of temporary custody shall present the following upon demand:
      "(1) Proper identification and evidence of his authority to act
    for the State into whose temporary custody this prisoner is to be
    given.
      "(2) A duly certified copy of the indictment, information, or
    complaint on the basis of which the detainer has been lodged and on
    the basis of which the request for temporary custody of the
    prisoner has been made.
      "(c) If the appropriate authority shall refuse or fail to accept
    temporary custody of said person, or in the event that an action on
    the indictment, information, or complaint on the basis of which the
    detainer has been lodged is not brought to trial within the period
    provided in article III or article IV hereof, the appropriate court
    of the jurisdiction where the indictment, information, or complaint
    has been pending shall enter an order dismissing the same with
    prejudice, and any detainer based thereon shall cease to be of any
    force or effect.
      "(d) The temporary custody referred to in this agreement shall be
    only for the purpose of permitting prosecution on the charge or
    charges contained in one or more untried indictments, informations,
    or complaints which form the basis of the detainer or detainers or
    for prosecution on any other charge or charges arising out of the
    same transaction. Except for his attendance at court and while
    being transported to or from any place at which his presence may be
    required, the prisoner shall be held in a suitable jail or other
    facility regularly used for persons awaiting prosecution.
      "(e) At the earliest practicable time consonant with the purposes
    of this agreement, the prisoner shall be returned to the sending
    State.
      "(f) During the continuance of temporary custody or while the
    prisoner is otherwise being made available for trial as required by
    this agreement, time being served on the sentence shall continue to
    run but good time shall be earned by the prisoner only if, and to
    the extent that, the law and practice of the jurisdiction which
    imposed the sentence may allow.
      "(g) For all purposes other than that for which temporary custody
    as provided in this agreement is exercised, the prisoner shall be
    deemed to remain in the custody of and subject to the jurisdiction
    of the sending State and any escape from temporary custody may be
    dealt with in the same manner as an escape from the original place
    of imprisonment or in any other manner permitted by law.
      "(h) From the time that a party State receives custody of a
    prisoner pursuant to this agreement until such prisoner is returned
    to the territory and custody of the sending State, the State in
    which the one or more untried indictments, informations, or
    complaints are pending or in which trial is being had shall be
    responsible for the prisoner and shall also pay all costs of
    transporting, caring for, keeping, and returning the prisoner. The
    provisions of this paragraph shall govern unless the States
    concerned shall have entered into a supplementary agreement
    providing for a different allocation of costs and responsibilities
    as between or among themselves. Nothing herein contained shall be
    construed to alter or affect any internal relationship among the
    departments, agencies, and officers of and in the government of a
    party State, or between a party State and its subdivisions, as to
    the payment of costs, or responsibilities therefor.
                                "ARTICLE VI                            
      "(a) In determining the duration and expiration dates of the time
    periods provided in articles III and IV of this agreement, the
    running of said time periods shall be tolled whenever and for as
    long as the prisoner is unable to stand trial, as determined by the
    court having jurisdiction of the matter.
      "(b) No provision of this agreement, and no remedy made available
    by this agreement shall apply to any person who is adjudged to be
    mentally ill.
                               "ARTICLE VII                           
      "Each State party to this agreement shall designate an officer
    who, acting jointly with like officers of other party States, shall
    promulgate rules and regulations to carry out more effectively the
    terms and provisions of this agreement, and who shall provide,
    within and without the State, information necessary to the
    effective operation of this agreement.
                               "ARTICLE VIII                           
      "This agreement shall enter into full force and effect as to a
    party State when such State has enacted the same into law. A State
    party to this agreement may withdraw herefrom by enacting a statute
    repealing the same. However, the withdrawal of any State shall not
    affect the status of any proceedings already initiated by inmates
    or by State officers at the time such withdrawal takes effect, nor
    shall it affect their rights in respect thereof.
                                "ARTICLE IX                            
      "This agreement shall be liberally construed so as to effectuate
    its purposes. The provisions of this agreement shall be severable
    and if any phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this agreement
    is declared to be contrary to the constitution of any party State
    or of the United States or the applicability thereof to any
    government, agency, person, or circumstance is held invalid, the
    validity of the remainder of this agreement and the applicability
    thereof to any government, agency, person, or circumstance shall
    not be affected thereby. If this agreement shall be held contrary
    to the constitution of any State party hereto, the agreement shall
    remain in full force and effect as to the remaining States and in
    full force and effect as to the State affected as to all severable
    matters."

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 2, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1397.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 3                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 3. Definition of term "Governor" for purposes of United States
      and District of Columbia

-STATUTE-
      The term "Governor" as used in the agreement on detainers shall
    mean with respect to the United States, the Attorney General, and
    with respect to the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the District
    of Columbia.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 3, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1402.)


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      "Mayor of the District of Columbia" substituted in text for
    "Commissioner of the District of Columbia" pursuant to section 421
    of Pub. L. 93-198. Office of Commissioner of District of Columbia,
    as established by Reorg. Plan No. 3, of 1967, abolished as of noon
    Jan. 2, 1975, by Pub. L. 93-198, title VII, Sec. 711, Dec. 24,
    1973, 87 Stat. 818, and replaced by Office of Mayor of District of
    Columbia by section 421 of Pub. L. 93-198.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 4                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 4. Definition of term "appropriate court"

-STATUTE-
      The term "appropriate court" as used in the agreement on
    detainers shall mean with respect to the United States, the courts
    of the United States, and with respect to the District of Columbia,
    the courts of the District of Columbia, in which indictments,
    informations, or complaints, for which disposition is sought, are
    pending.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 4, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1402.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 5                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 5. Enforcement and cooperation by courts, departments,
      agencies, officers, and employees of United States and District
      of Columbia

-STATUTE-
      All courts, departments, agencies, officers, and employees of the
    United States and of the District of Columbia are hereby directed
    to enforce the agreement on detainers and to cooperate with one
    another and with all party States in enforcing the agreement and
    effectuating its purpose.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 5, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1402.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 6                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 6. Regulations, forms, and instructions

-STATUTE-
      For the United States, the Attorney General, and for the District
    of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, shall establish
    such regulations, prescribe such forms, issue such instructions,
    and perform such other acts as he deems necessary for carrying out
    the provisions of this Act.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 6, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1403.)


-TRANS-
                           TRANSFER OF FUNCTIONS                       
      "Mayor of the District of Columbia" substituted in text for
    "Commissioner of the District of Columbia" pursuant to section 421
    of Pub. L. 93-198. Office of Commissioner of District of Columbia,
    as established by Reorg. Plan No. 3 of 1967, abolished as of noon
    Jan. 2, 1975, by Pub. L. 93-198, title VII, Sec. 711, Dec. 24,
    1973, 87 Stat. 818, and replaced by Office of Mayor of District of
    Columbia by section 421 of Pub. L. 93-198.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 7                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 7. Reservation of right to alter, amend, or repeal

-STATUTE-
      The right to alter, amend, or repeal this Act is expressly
    reserved.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 7, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1403.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 8                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 8. Effective Date

-STATUTE-
      This Act shall take effect on the ninetieth day after the date of
    its enactment.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 8, Dec. 9, 1970, 84 Stat. 1403.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The date of its enactment, referred to in text, means Dec. 9,
    1970.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 9                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    INTERSTATE AGREEMENT ON DETAINERS

-HEAD-
    Sec. 9. Special Provisions when United States is a Receiving State

-STATUTE-
      Notwithstanding any provision of the agreement on detainers to
    the contrary, in a case in which the United States is a receiving
    State - 
        (1) any order of a court dismissing any indictment,
      information, or complaint may be with or without prejudice. In
      determining whether to dismiss the case with or without
      prejudice, the court shall consider, among others, each of the
      following factors: The seriousness of the offense; the facts and
      circumstances of the case which led to the dismissal; and the
      impact of a reprosecution on the administration of the agreement
      on detainers and on the administration of justice; and
        (2) it shall not be a violation of the agreement on detainers
      if prior to trial the prisoner is returned to the custody of the
      sending State pursuant to an order of the appropriate court
      issued after reasonable notice to the prisoner and the United
      States and an opportunity for a hearing.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 91-538, Sec. 9, as added Pub. L. 100-690, title VII, Sec.
    7059, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4403.)
TITLE 18, APPENDIX - CLASSIFIED INFORMATION       PROCEDURES ACT      

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
      PROCEDURES ACT                                       01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
                   CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT               


-MISC1-
    PUB. L. 96-456, OCT. 15, 1980, 94 STAT. 2025, AS AMENDED BY PUB. L.
     100-690, TITLE VII, SEC. 7020(G), NOV. 18, 1988, 102 STAT. 4396;
    PUB. L. 106-567, TITLE VI, SEC. 607, DEC. 27, 2000, 114 STAT. 2855;
      PUB. L. 107-306, TITLE VIII, SEC. 811(B)(3), NOV. 27, 2002, 116
    STAT. 2423; PUB. L. 108-458, TITLE I, SEC. 1071(F), DEC. 17, 2004,
     118 STAT. 3691; PUB. L. 109-177, TITLE V, SEC. 506(A)(8), MAR. 9,
    2006, 120 STAT. 248; PUB. L. 111-16, SEC. 4, MAY 7, 2009, 123 STAT.
                                   1608

                                                                

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 1                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 1. Definitions

-STATUTE-
      (a) "Classified information", as used in this Act, means any
    information or material that has been determined by the United
    States Government pursuant to an Executive order, statute, or
    regulation, to require protection against unauthorized disclosure
    for reasons of national security and any restricted data, as
    defined in paragraph r. of section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of
    1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y)).
      (b) "National security", as used in this Act, means the national
    defense and foreign relations of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 1, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2025.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 2                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 2. Pretrial conference

-STATUTE-
      At any time after the filing of the indictment or information,
    any party may move for a pretrial conference to consider matters
    relating to classified information that may arise in connection
    with the prosecution. Following such motion, or on its own motion,
    the court shall promptly hold a pretrial conference to establish
    the timing of requests for discovery, the provision of notice
    required by section 5 of this Act, and the initiation of the
    procedure established by section 6 of this Act. In addition, at the
    pretrial conference the court may consider any matters which relate
    to classified information or which may promote a fair and
    expeditious trial. No admission made by the defendant or by any
    attorney for the defendant at such a conference may be used against
    the defendant unless the admission is in writing and is signed by
    the defendant and by the attorney for the defendant.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 2, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2025.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 3                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 3. Protective orders

-STATUTE-
      Upon motion of the United States, the court shall issue an order
    to protect against the disclosure of any classified information
    disclosed by the United States to any defendant in any criminal
    case in a district court of the United States.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 3, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2025.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 4                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 4. Discovery of classified information by defendants

-STATUTE-
      The court, upon a sufficient showing, may authorize the United
    States to delete specified items of classified information from
    documents to be made available to the defendant through discovery
    under the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, to substitute a
    summary of the information for such classified documents, or to
    substitute a statement admitting relevant facts that the classified
    information would tend to prove. The court may permit the United
    States to make a request for such authorization in the form of a
    written statement to be inspected by the court alone. If the court
    enters an order granting relief following such an ex parte showing,
    the entire text of the statement of the United States shall be
    sealed and preserved in the records of the court to be made
    available to the appellate court in the event of an appeal.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 4, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2025.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 5                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 5. Notice of defendant's intention to disclose classified
      information

-STATUTE-
      (a) Notice by Defendant. - If a defendant reasonably expects to
    disclose or to cause the disclosure of classified information in
    any manner in connection with any trial or pretrial proceeding
    involving the criminal prosecution of such defendant, the defendant
    shall, within the time specified by the court or, where no time is
    specified, within thirty days prior to trial, notify the attorney
    for the United States and the court in writing. Such notice shall
    include a brief description of the classified information. Whenever
    a defendant learns of additional classified information he
    reasonably expects to disclose at any such proceeding, he shall
    notify the attorney for the United States and the court in writing
    as soon as possible thereafter and shall include a brief
    description of the classified information. No defendant shall
    disclose any information known or believed to be classified in
    connection with a trial or pretrial proceeding until notice has
    been given under this subsection and until the United States has
    been afforded a reasonable opportunity to seek a determination
    pursuant to the procedure set forth in section 6 of this Act, and
    until the time for the United States to appeal such determination
    under section 7 has expired or any appeal under section 7 by the
    United States is decided.
      (b) Failure to Comply. - If the defendant fails to comply with
    the requirements of subsection (a) the court may preclude
    disclosure of any classified information not made the subject of
    notification and may prohibit the examination by the defendant of
    any witness with respect to any such information.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 5, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2026.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 6                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 6. Procedure for cases involving classified information

-STATUTE-
      (a) Motion for Hearing. - Within the time specified by the court
    for the filing of a motion under this section, the United States
    may request the court to conduct a hearing to make all
    determinations concerning the use, relevance, or admissibility of
    classified information that would otherwise be made during the
    trial or pretrial proceeding. Upon such a request, the court shall
    conduct such a hearing. Any hearing held pursuant to this
    subsection (or any portion of such hearing specified in the request
    of the Attorney General) shall be held in camera if the Attorney
    General certifies to the court in such petition that a public
    proceeding may result in the disclosure of classified information.
    As to each item of classified information, the court shall set
    forth in writing the basis for its determination. Where the United
    States' motion under this subsection is filed prior to the trial or
    pretrial proceeding, the court shall rule prior to the commencement
    of the relevant proceeding.
      (b) Notice. - (1) Before any hearing is conducted pursuant to a
    request by the United States under subsection (a), the United
    States shall provide the defendant with notice of the classified
    information that is at issue. Such notice shall identify the
    specific classified information at issue whenever that information
    previously has been made available to the defendant by the United
    States. When the United States has not previously made the
    information available to the defendant in connection with the case,
    the information may be described by generic category, in such forms
    as the court may approve, rather than by identification of the
    specific information of concern to the United States.
      (2) Whenever the United States requests a hearing under
    subsection (a), the court, upon request of the defendant, may order
    the United States to provide the defendant, prior to trial, such
    details as to the portion of the indictment or information at issue
    in the hearing as are needed to give the defendant fair notice to
    prepare for the hearing.
      (c) Alternative Procedure for Disclosure of Classified
    Information. - (1) Upon any determination by the court authorizing
    the disclosure of specific classified information under the
    procedures established by this section, the United States may move
    that, in lieu of the disclosure of such specific classified
    information, the court order - 
        (A) the substitution for such classified information of a
      statement admitting relevant facts that the specific classified
      information would tend to prove; or
        (B) the substitution for such classified information of a
      summary of the specific classified information.

    The court shall grant such a motion of the United States if it
    finds that the statement or summary will provide the defendant with
    substantially the same ability to make his defense as would
    disclosure of the specific classified information. The court shall
    hold a hearing on any motion under this section. Any such hearing
    shall be held in camera at the request of the Attorney General.
      (2) The United States may, in connection with a motion under
    paragraph (1), submit to the court an affidavit of the Attorney
    General certifying that disclosure of classified information would
    cause identifiable damage to the national security of the United
    States and explaining the basis for the classification of such
    information. If so requested by the United States, the court shall
    examine such affidavit in camera and ex parte.
      (d) Sealing of Records of In Camera Hearings. - If at the close
    of an in camera hearing under this Act (or any portion of a hearing
    under this Act that is held in camera) the court determines that
    the classified information at issue may not be disclosed or
    elicited at the trial or pretrial proceeding, the record of such in
    camera hearing shall be sealed and preserved by the court for use
    in the event of an appeal. The defendant may seek reconsideration
    of the court's determination prior to or during trial.
      (e) Prohibition on Disclosure of Classified Information by
    Defendant, Relief for Defendant When United States Opposes
    Disclosure. - (1) Whenever the court denies a motion by the United
    States that it issue an order under subsection (c) and the United
    States files with the court an affidavit of the Attorney General
    objecting to disclosure of the classified information at issue, the
    court shall order that the defendant not disclose or cause the
    disclosure of such information.
      (2) Whenever a defendant is prevented by an order under paragraph
    (1) from disclosing or causing the disclosure of classified
    information, the court shall dismiss the indictment or information;
    except that, when the court determines that the interests of
    justice would not be served by dismissal of the indictment or
    information, the court shall order such other action, in lieu of
    dismissing the indictment or information, as the court determines
    is appropriate. Such action may include, but need not be limited to
    - 
        (A) dismissing specified counts of the indictment or
      information;
        (B) finding against the United States on any issue as to which
      the excluded classified information relates; or
        (C) striking or precluding all or part of the testimony of a
      witness.

    An order under this paragraph shall not take effect until the court
    has afforded the United States an opportunity to appeal such order
    under section 7, and thereafter to withdraw its objection to the
    disclosure of the classified information at issue.
      (f) Reciprocity. - Whenever the court determines pursuant to
    subsection (a) that classified information may be disclosed in
    connection with a trial or pretrial proceeding, the court shall,
    unless the interests of fairness do not so require, order the
    United States to provide the defendant with the information it
    expects to use to rebut the classified information. The court may
    place the United States under a continuing duty to disclose such
    rebuttal information. If the United States fails to comply with its
    obligation under this subsection, the court may exclude any
    evidence not made the subject of a required disclosure and may
    prohibit the examination by the United States of any witness with
    respect to such information.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 6, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2026.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 7                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 7. Interlocutory appeal

-STATUTE-
      (a) An interlocutory appeal by the United States taken before or
    after the defendant has been placed in jeopardy shall lie to a
    court of appeals from a decision or order of a district court in a
    criminal case authorizing the disclosure of classified information,
    imposing sanctions for nondisclosure of classified information, or
    refusing a protective order sought by the United States to prevent
    the disclosure of classified information.
      (b) An appeal taken pursuant to this section either before or
    during trial shall be expedited by the court of appeals. Prior to
    trial, an appeal shall be taken within fourteen days after the
    decision or order appealed from and the trial shall not commence
    until the appeal is resolved. If an appeal is taken during trial,
    the trial court shall adjourn the trial until the appeal is
    resolved and the court of appeals (1) shall hear argument on such
    appeal within four days of the adjournment of the trial, excluding
    intermediate weekends and holidays, (2) may dispense with written
    briefs other than the supporting materials previously submitted to
    the trial court, (3) shall render its decision within four days of
    argument on appeal, excluding intermediate weekends and holidays,
    and (4) may dispense with the issuance of a written opinion in
    rendering its decision. Such appeal and decision shall not affect
    the right of the defendant, in a subsequent appeal from a judgment
    of conviction, to claim as error reversal by the trial court on
    remand of a ruling appealed from during trial.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 7, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2028; Pub. L. 111-
    16, Sec. 4, May 7, 2009, 123 Stat. 1608.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2009 - Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 111-16, Sec. 4(1), substituted
    "fourteen days" for "ten days".
      Subsec. (b)(1). Pub. L. 111-16, Sec. 4(2), inserted "excluding
    intermediate weekends and holidays," after "adjournment of the
    trial,".
      Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 111-16, Sec. 4(3), inserted "excluding
    intermediate weekends and holidays," after "argument on appeal,".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2009 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 111-16 effective Dec. 1, 2009, see section 7
    of Pub. L. 111-16, set out as a note under section 109 of Title 11,
    Bankruptcy.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 8                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 8. Introduction of classified information

-STATUTE-
      (a) Classification Status. - Writings, recordings, and
    photographs containing classified information may be admitted into
    evidence without change in their classification status.
      (b) Precautions by Court. - The court, in order to prevent
    unnecessary disclosure of classified information involved in any
    criminal proceeding, may order admission into evidence of only part
    of a writing, recording, or photograph, or may order admission into
    evidence of the whole writing, recording, or photograph with
    excision of some or all of the classified information contained
    therein, unless the whole ought in fairness be considered.
      (c) Taking of Testimony. - During the examination of a witness in
    any criminal proceeding, the United States may object to any
    question or line of inquiry that may require the witness to
    disclose classified information not previously found to be
    admissible. Following such an objection, the court shall take such
    suitable action to determine whether the response is admissible as
    will safeguard against the compromise of any classified
    information. Such action may include requiring the United States to
    provide the court with a proffer of the witness' response to the
    question or line of inquiry and requiring the defendant to provide
    the court with a proffer of the nature of the information he seeks
    to elicit.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 8, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2028.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 9                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 9. Security procedures

-STATUTE-
      (a) Within one hundred and twenty days of the date of the
    enactment of this Act, the Chief Justice of the United States, in
    consultation with the Attorney General, the Director of National
    Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense, shall prescribe rules
    establishing procedures for the protection against unauthorized
    disclosure of any classified information in the custody of the
    United States district courts, courts of appeal, or Supreme Court.
    Such rules, and any changes in such rules, shall be submitted to
    the appropriate committees of Congress and shall become effective
    forty-five days after such submission.
      (b) Until such time as rules under subsection (a) first become
    effective, the Federal courts shall in each case involving
    classified information adapt procedures to protect against the
    unauthorized disclosure of such information.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 9, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2029; Pub. L. 108-
    458, title I, Sec. 1071(f), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3691.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The date of the enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec.
    (a), means Oct. 15, 1980.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2004 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 108-458 substituted "Director of
    National Intelligence" for "Director of Central Intelligence".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2004 AMENDMENT                 
      For Determination by President that amendment by Pub. L. 108-458
    take effect on Apr. 21, 2005, see Memorandum of President of the
    United States, Apr. 21, 2005, 70 F.R. 23925, set out as a note
    under section 401 of Title 50, War and National Defense.
      Amendment by Pub. L. 108-458 effective not later than six months
    after Dec. 17, 2004, except as otherwise expressly provided, see
    section 1097(a) of Pub. L. 108-458, set out as an Effective Date of
    2004 Amendment; Transition Provisions note under section 401 of
    Title 50, War and National Defense.

      SECURITY PROCEDURES ESTABLISHED PURSUANT TO PUB. L. 96-456, 94
       STAT. 2025, BY THE CHIEF JUSTICE OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
                   PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION
      1. Purpose. The purpose of these procedures is to meet the
    requirements of Section 9(a) of the Classified Information
    Procedures Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-456, 94 Stat. 2025, which in
    pertinent part provides that:
      ". . . [T]he Chief Justice of the United States, in consultation
      with the Attorney General, the Director of Central Intelligence,
      and the Secretary of Defense, shall prescribe rules establishing
      procedures for the protection against unauthorized disclosure of
      any classified information in the custody of the United States
      district courts, courts of appeal, or Supreme Court. . . ."
    These procedures apply in all proceedings in criminal cases
    involving classified information, and appeals therefrom, before the
    United States district courts, the courts of appeal and the Supreme
    Court.
      2. Court Security Officer. In any proceeding in a criminal case
    or appeal therefrom in which classified information is within, or
    reasonably expected to be within, the custody of the court, the
    court shall designate a court security officer. The Attorney
    General or the Department of Justice Security Officer, with the
    concurrence of the head of the agency or agencies from which the
    classified information originates, or their representatives, shall
    recommend to the court persons qualified to serve as court security
    officer. The court security officer shall be selected from among
    those persons so recommended.
      The court security officer shall be an individual with
    demonstrated competence in security matters, and shall, prior to
    designation, have been certified to the court in writing by the
    Department of Justice Security Officer as cleared for the level and
    category of classified information that will be involved. The court
    security officer may be an employee of the Executive Branch of the
    Government detailed to the court for this purpose. One or more
    alternate court security officers, who have been recommended and
    cleared in the manner specified above, may be designated by the
    court as required.
      The court security officer shall be responsible to the court for
    document, physical, personnel and communications security, and
    shall take measures reasonably necessary to fulfill these
    responsibilities. The court security officer shall notify the court
    and the Department of Justice Security Officer of any actual,
    attempted, or potential violation of security procedures.
      3. Secure Quarters. Any in camera proceeding - including a
    pretrial conference, motion hearing, or appellate hearing -
    concerning the use, relevance, or admissibility of classified
    information, shall be held in secure quarters recommended by the
    court security officer and approved by the court.
      The secure quarters shall be located within the Federal
    courthouse, unless it is determined that none of the quarters
    available in the courthouse meets, or can reasonably be made
    equivalent to, security requirements of the Executive Branch
    applicable to the level and category of classified information
    involved. In that event, the court shall designate the facilities
    of another United States Government agency, recommended by the
    court security officer, which is located within the vicinity of the
    courthouse, as the site of the proceedings.
      The court security officer shall make necessary arrangements to
    ensure that the applicable Executive Branch standards are met and
    shall conduct or arrange for such inspection of the quarters as may
    be necessary. The court security officer shall, in consultation
    with the United States Marshal, arrange for the installation of
    security devices and take such other measures as may be necessary
    to protect against any unauthorized access to classified
    information. All of the aforementioned activity shall be conducted
    in a manner which does not interfere with the orderly proceedings
    of the court. Prior to any hearing or other proceeding, the court
    security officer shall certify in writing to the court that the
    quarters are secure.
      4. Personnel Security - Court Personnel. No person appointed by
    the court or designated for service therein shall be given access
    to any classified information in the custody of the court, unless
    such person has received a security clearance as provided herein
    and unless access to such information is necessary for the
    performance of an official function. A security clearance for
    justices and judges is not required, but such clearance shall be
    provided upon the request of any judicial officer who desires to be
    cleared.
      The court shall inform the court security officer or the attorney
    for the government of the names of court personnel who may require
    access to classified information. That person shall then notify the
    Department of Justice Security Officer, who shall promptly make
    arrangements to obtain any necessary security clearances and shall
    approve such clearances under standards of the Executive Branch
    applicable to the level and category of classified information
    involved. The Department of Justice Security Officer shall advise
    the court in writing when the necessary security clearances have
    been obtained.
      If security clearances cannot be obtained promptly, personnel in
    the Executive Branch having the necessary clearances may be
    temporarily assigned to assist the court. If a proceeding is
    required to be recorded and an official court reporter having the
    necessary security clearance is unavailable, the court may request
    the court security officer or the attorney for the government to
    have a cleared reporter from the Executive Branch designated to act
    as reporter in the proceedings. The reporter so designated shall
    take the oath of office as prescribed by 28 U.S.C. Sec. 753(a).
      Justices, judges and cleared court personnel shall not disclose
    classified information to anyone who does not have a security
    clearance and who does not require the information in the discharge
    of an official function. However, nothing contained in these
    procedures shall preclude a judge from discharging his official
    duties, including giving appropriate instructions to the jury.
      Any problem of security involving court personnel or persons
    acting for the court shall be referred to the court for appropriate
    action.
      5. Persons Acting for the Defendant. The government may obtain
    information by any lawful means concerning the trustworthiness of
    persons associated with the defense and may bring such information
    to the attention of the court for the court's consideration in
    framing an appropriate protective order pursuant to Section 3 of
    the Act.
      6. Jury. Nothing contained in these procedures shall be construed
    to require an investigation or security clearance of the members of
    the jury or interfere with the functions of a jury, including
    access to classified information introduced as evidence in the
    trial of a case.
      After a verdict has been rendered by a jury, the trial judge
    should consider a government request for a cautionary instruction
    to jurors regarding the release or disclosure of classified
    information contained in documents they have reviewed during the
    trial.
      7. Custody and Storage of Classified Materials.
      a. Materials Covered. These security procedures apply to all
    papers, documents, motions, pleadings, briefs, notes, records of
    statements involving classified information, notes relating to
    classified information taken during in camera proceedings, orders,
    affidavits, transcripts, untranscribed notes of a court reporter,
    magnetic recordings, or any other submissions or records which
    contain classified information as the term is defined in Section
    1(a) of the Act, and which are in the custody of the court. This
    includes, but is not limited to (1) any motion made in connection
    with a pretrial conference held pursuant to Section 2 of the Act,
    (2) written statements submitted by the United States pursuant to
    Section 4 of the Act, (3) any written statement or written notice
    submitted to the court by the defendant pursuant to Section 5(a) of
    the Act, (4) any petition or written motion made pursuant to
    Section 6 of the Act, (5) any description of, or reference to,
    classified information contained in papers filed in an appeal,
    pursuant to Section 7 of the Act and (6) any written statement
    provided by the United States or by the defendant pursuant to
    Section 8(c) of the Act.
      b. Safekeeping. Classified information submitted to the court
    shall be placed in the custody of the court security officer who
    shall be responsible for its safekeeping. When not in use, the
    court security officer shall store all classified materials in a
    safe or safe-type steel file container with built-in, dial-type,
    three position, changeable combinations which conform to the
    General Services Administration standards for security containers.
    Classified information shall be segregated from other information
    unrelated to the case at hand by securing it in a separate security
    container. If the court does not possess a storage container which
    meets the required standards, the necessary storage container or
    containers are to be supplied to the court on a temporary basis by
    the appropriate Executive Branch agency as determined by the
    Department of Justice Security Officer. Only the court security
    officer and alternate court security officer(s) shall have access
    to the combination and the contents of the container unless the
    court, after consultation with the security officer, determines
    that a cleared person other than the court security officer may
    also have access.
      For other than temporary storage (e.g., brief court recess), the
    court security officer shall insure that the storage area in which
    these containers shall be located meets Executive Branch standards
    applicable to the level and category of classified information
    involved. The secure storage area may be located within either the
    Federal courthouse or the facilities of another United States
    Government agency.
      (c) Transmittal of Classified Information. During the pendency of
    a trial or appeal, classified materials stored in the facilities of
    another United States Government agency shall be transmitted in the
    manner prescribed by the Executive Branch security regulations
    applicable to the level and category of classified information
    involved. A trust receipt shall accompany all classified materials
    transmitted and shall be signed by the recipient and returned to
    the court security officer.
      8. Operating Routine.
      a. Access to Court Records. Court personnel shall have access to
    court records only as authorized. Access to classified information
    by court personnel shall be limited to the minimum number of
    cleared persons necessary for operating purposes. Access includes
    presence at an in camera hearing or any other proceeding during
    which classified information may be disclosed. Arrangements for
    access to classified information in the custody of the court by
    court personnel and persons acting for the defense shall be
    approved in advance by the court, which may issue a protective
    order concerning such access.
      Except as otherwise authorized by a protective order, persons
    acting for the defendant will not be given custody of classified
    information provided by the government. They may, at the discretion
    of the court, be afforded access to classified information provided
    by the government in secure quarters which have been approved in
    accordance with Sec. 3 of these procedures, but such classified
    information shall remain in the control of the court security
    officer.
      b. Telephone Security. Classified information shall not be
    discussed over standard commercial telephone instruments or office
    intercommunication systems.
      c. Disposal of Classified Material. The court security officer
    shall be responsible for the secure disposal of all classified
    materials which are not otherwise required to be retained.
      9. Records Security.
      a. Classification Markings. The court security officer, after
    consultation with the attorney for the government, shall be
    responsible for the marking of all court documents containing
    classified information with the appropriate level of classification
    and for indicating thereon any special access controls that also
    appear on the face of the document from which the classified
    information was obtained or that are otherwise applicable.
      Every document filed by the defendant in the case shall be filed
    under seal and promptly turned over to the court security officer.
    The court security officer shall promptly examine the document and,
    in consultation with the attorney for the government or
    representative of the appropriate agency, determine whether it
    contains classified information. If it is determined that the
    document does contain classified information, the court security
    officer shall ensure that it is marked with the appropriate
    classification marking. If it is determined that the document does
    not contain classified information, it shall be unsealed and placed
    in the public record. Upon the request of the government, the court
    may direct that any document containing classified information
    shall thereafter be protected in accordance with Sec. 7 of these
    procedures.
      b. Accountability System. The court security officer shall be
    responsible for the establishment and maintenance of a control and
    accountability system for all classified information received by or
    transmitted from the court.
      10. Transmittal of the Record on Appeal. The record on appeal, or
    any portion thereof, which contains classified information shall be
    transmitted to the court of appeals or to the Supreme Court in the
    manner specified in Sec. 7(c) of these procedures.
      11. Final Disposition. Within a reasonable time after all
    proceedings in the case have been concluded, including appeals, the
    court shall release to the court security officer all materials
    containing classified information. The court security officer shall
    then transmit them to the Department of Justice Security Officer
    who shall consult with the originating agency to determine the
    appropriate disposition of such materials. Upon the motion of the
    government, the court may order the return of the classified
    documents and materials to the department or agency which
    originated them. The materials shall be transmitted in the manner
    specified in Sec. 7(c) of these procedures and shall be accompanied
    by the appropriate accountability records required by Sec. 9(b) of
    these procedures.
      12. Expenses. Expenses of the United States Government which
    arise in connection with the implementation of these procedures
    shall be borne by the Department of Justice or other appropriate
    Executive Branch agency.
      13. Interpretation. Any question concerning the interpretation of
    any security requirement contained in these procedures shall be
    resolved by the court in consultation with the Department of
    Justice Security Officer and the appropriate Executive Branch
    agency security officer.
      14. Term. These procedures shall remain in effect until modified
    in writing by The Chief Justice after consultation with the
    Attorney General of the United States, the Director of Central
    Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense.
      15. Effective Date. These procedures shall become effective forty-
    five days after the date of submission to the appropriate
    Congressional Committees, as required by the Act.
      Issued this 12th day of February, 1981, after taking into account
    the views of the Attorney General of the United States, the
    Director of Central Intelligence, and the Secretary of Defense, as
    required by law.
                                                        Warren E. Burger
                                                   Chief Justice of the 
                                                         United States  

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 9A                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 9A. Coordination requirements relating to the prosecution of
      cases involving classified information

-STATUTE-
      (a) Briefings Required. - The Assistant Attorney General for the
    Criminal Division or the Assistant Attorney General for National
    Security, as appropriate, and the appropriate United States
    attorney, or the designees of such officials, shall provide
    briefings to the senior agency official, or the designee of such
    official, with respect to any case involving classified information
    that originated in the agency of such senior agency official.
      (b) Timing of Briefings. - Briefings under subsection (a) with
    respect to a case shall occur - 
        (1) as soon as practicable after the Department of Justice and
      the United States attorney concerned determine that a prosecution
      or potential prosecution could result; and
        (2) at such other times thereafter as are necessary to keep the
      senior agency official concerned fully and currently informed of
      the status of the prosecution.

      (c) Senior Agency Official Defined. - In this section, the term
    "senior agency official" has the meaning given that term in section
    1.1 of Executive Order No. 12958.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 9A, as added Pub. L. 106-567, title VI, Sec.
    607, Dec. 27, 2000, 114 Stat. 2855; amended Pub. L. 109-177, title
    V, Sec. 506(a)(8), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 248.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Executive Order No. 12958, referred to in subsec. (c), which was
    set out as a note under section 435 of Title 50, War and National
    Defense, was revoked by Ex. Ord. No. 13526, Sec. 6.2(g), Dec. 29,
    2009, 75 F.R. 731.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2006 - Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 109-177 inserted "or the Assistant
    Attorney General for National Security, as appropriate," after
    "Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division".

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 10                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 10. Identification of information related to the national
      defense

-STATUTE-
      In any prosecution in which the United States must establish that
    material relates to the national defense or constitutes classified
    information, the United States shall notify the defendant, within
    the time before trial specified by the court, of the portions of
    the material that it reasonably expects to rely upon to establish
    the national defense or classified information element of the
    offense.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 10, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2029.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 11                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 11. Amendments to the Act

-STATUTE-
      Sections 1 through 10 of this Act may be amended as provided in
    section 2076, title 28, United States Code.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 11, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2029.)

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 12                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 12. Attorney General guidelines

-STATUTE-
      (a) Within one hundred and eighty days of enactment of this Act,
    the Attorney General shall issue guidelines specifying the factors
    to be used by the Department of Justice in rendering a decision
    whether to prosecute a violation of Federal law in which, in the
    judgment of the Attorney General, there is a possibility that
    classified information will be revealed. Such guidelines shall be
    transmitted to the appropriate committees of Congress.
      (b) When the Department of Justice decides not to prosecute a
    violation of Federal law pursuant to subsection (a), an appropriate
    official of the Department of Justice shall prepare written
    findings detailing the reasons for the decision not to prosecute.
    The findings shall include - 
        (1) the intelligence information which the Department of
      Justice officials believe might be disclosed,
        (2) the purpose for which the information might be disclosed,
        (3) the probability that the information would be disclosed,
      and
        (4) the possible consequences such disclosure would have on the
      national security.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 12, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2029.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The enactment of this Act, referred to in subsec. (a), means Oct.
    15, 1980.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 13                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 13. Reports to Congress

-STATUTE-
      (a) Consistent with applicable authorities and duties, including
    those conferred by the Constitution upon the executive and
    legislative branches, the Attorney General shall report orally or
    in writing semiannually to the Permanent Select Committee on
    Intelligence of the United States House of Representatives, the
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate, and
    the chairmen and ranking minority members of the Committees on the
    Judiciary of the Senate and House of Representatives on all cases
    where a decision not to prosecute a violation of Federal law
    pursuant to section 12(a) has been made.
      (b) In the case of the semiannual reports (whether oral or
    written) required to be submitted under subsection (a) to the
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of
    Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
    Senate, the submittal dates for such reports shall be as provided
    in section 507 of the National Security Act of 1947.
      (c) The Attorney General shall deliver to the appropriate
    committees of Congress a report concerning the operation and
    effectiveness of this Act and including suggested amendments to
    this Act. For the first three years this Act is in effect, there
    shall be a report each year. After three years, such reports shall
    be delivered as necessary.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 13, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2030; Pub. L. 107-
    306, title VIII, Sec. 811(b)(3), Nov. 27, 2002, 116 Stat. 2423.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      Section 507 of the National Security Act of 1947, referred to in
    subsec. (b), is classified to section 415b of Title 50, War and
    National Defense.


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      2002 - Subsecs. (b), (c). Pub. L. 107-306 added subsec. (b) and
    redesignated former subsec. (b) as (c).

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 14                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 14. Functions of Attorney General may be exercised by Deputy
      Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, or a designated
      Assistant Attorney General

-STATUTE-
      The functions and duties of the Attorney General under this Act
    may be exercised by the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate
    Attorney General, or by an Assistant Attorney General designated by
    the Attorney General for such purpose and may not be delegated to
    any other official.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 14, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2030; Pub. L. 100-
    690, title VII, Sec. 7020(g), Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat. 4396.)


-MISC1-
                                AMENDMENTS                            
      1988 - Pub. L. 100-690 inserted ", the Associate Attorney
    General," after "Deputy Attorney General".

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 15                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 15. Effective date

-STATUTE-
      The provisions of this Act shall become effective upon the date
    of the enactment of this Act, but shall not apply to any
    prosecution in which an indictment or information was filed before
    such date.

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 15, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2030.)

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The date of the enactment of this Act, referred to in text, means
    Oct. 15, 1980.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Sec. 16                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    CLASSIFIED INFORMATION PROCEDURES ACT

-HEAD-
    Sec. 16. Short title

-STATUTE-
      That this Act may be cited as the "Classified Information
    Procedures Act".

-SOURCE-
    (Pub. L. 96-456, Sec. 16, Oct. 15, 1980, 94 Stat. 2031.)
TITLE 18, APPENDIX - RULES OF EVIDENCE

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE

-HEAD-
                         FEDERAL RULES OF EVIDENCE                     

The text of the Federal Rules of Evidence enacted into law by Pub. L. 93-595, Sec. 1, Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1929, is set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure. Rule 1101(b) of the Rules of Evidence provides that the rules apply generally to civil actions and proceedings, including admiralty and maritime cases, to criminal cases and proceedings, to contempt proceedings except those in which the court may act summarily, and to proceedings and cases under Title 11, Bankruptcy.
TITLE 18, APPENDIX - RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL
      PROCEDURE                                            01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE

-HEAD-
                    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE                


-MISC1-
                      (AS AMENDED TO JANUARY 3, 2012)                  

                                                                

                              HISTORICAL NOTE                          
      The original Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure were adopted by
    order of the Supreme Court on Dec. 26, 1944, transmitted to
    Congress by the Attorney General on Jan. 3, 1945, and became
    effective on Mar. 21, 1946.
      The Rules have been amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Jan. 1, 1949;
    Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Apr. 12, 1954, eff. July 1,
    1954; Apr. 9, 1956, eff. July 8, 1956; Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1,
    1966; Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968; Mar. 1, 1971, eff. July 1,
    1971; Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Nov. 20, 1972, eff. July 1,
    1975, pursuant to Pub. L. 93-595; Mar. 18, 1974, eff. July 1, 1974;
    Apr. 22, 1974, eff. in part Aug. 1, 1975, and Dec. 1, 1975,
    pursuant to Pub. L. 93-361 and Pub. L. 94-64; Dec. 12, 1975, Pub.
    L. 94-149, Sec. 5, 89 Stat. 806; Apr. 26, 1976, eff. in part Aug.
    1, 1976, and Oct. 1, 1977, pursuant to Pub. L. 94-349 and Pub. L.
    95-78; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. in part Aug. 1, 1979, and Dec. 1, 1980,
    pursuant to Pub. L. 96-42; Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1, 1982; Oct.
    12, 1982, Pub. L. 97-291, Sec. 3, 96 Stat. 1249; Apr. 28, 1983,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1983; Oct. 12, 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Secs.
    209, 215, 404, 98 Stat. 1986, 2014, 2067; Oct. 30, 1984, Pub. L. 98-
    596, Sec. 11(a), (b), 98 Stat. 3138; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1,
    1985; Oct. 27, 1986, Pub. L. 99-570, title I, Sec. 1009(a), 100
    Stat. 3207-8; Nov. 10, 1986, Pub. L. 99-646, Secs. 12(b), 24,
    25(a), 54(a), 100 Stat. 3594, 3597, 3607; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug.
    1, 1987; Apr. 25, 1988, eff. Aug. 1, 1988; Nov. 18, 1988, Pub. L.
    100-690, title VI, Sec. 6483, title VII, Secs. 7076, 7089(c), 102
    Stat. 4382, 4406, 4409; Apr. 25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; May 1,
    1990, eff. Dec. 1, 1990; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 22,
    1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 1994, eff. Dec. 1, 1994; Sept.
    13, 1994, Pub. L. 103-322, title XXIII, Sec. 230101(b), title
    XXXIII, Sec. 330003(h), 108 Stat. 2078, 2141; Apr. 27, 1995, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1995; Apr. 23, 1996, eff. Dec. 1, 1996; Apr. 24, 1996, Pub.
    L. 104-132, title II, Sec. 207(a), 110 Stat. 1236; Apr. 11, 1997,
    eff. Dec. 1, 1997; Apr. 24, 1998, eff. Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 26, 1999,
    eff. Dec. 1, 1999; Apr. 17, 2000, eff. Dec. 1, 2000; Oct. 26, 2001,
    Pub. L. 107-56, title II, Secs. 203(a), 219, 115 Stat. 278, 291;
    Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Nov. 2, 2002, Pub. L. 107-273,
    div. C, title I, Sec. 11019(b), 116 Stat. 1825; Nov. 25, 2002, Pub.
    L. 107-296, title VIII, Sec. 895, 116 Stat. 2256; Apr. 30, 2003,
    Pub. L. 108-21, title VI, Sec. 610(b), 117 Stat. 692; Apr. 26,
    2004, eff. Dec. 1, 2004; Pub. L. 108-458, title VI, Sec. 6501(a),
    Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3760; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005;
    Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec. 1, 2006; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007;
    Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009;
    Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.

                          TITLE I. APPLICABILITY                      
    Rule                                                     
    1.          Scope; Definitions.                                   
    2.          Interpretation.                                       

                     TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS                 
    3.          The Complaint.                                        
    4.          Arrest Warrant or Summons on a Complaint.             
    4.1.        Complaint, Warrant, or Summons by Telephone or Other
                 Reliable Electronic Means.                           
    5.          Initial Appearance.                                   
    5.1.        Preliminary Hearing.                                  

      TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION  
    6.          The Grand Jury.                                       
    7.          The Indictment and the Information.                   
    8.          Joinder of Offenses or Defendants.                    
    9.          Arrest Warrant or Summons on an Indictment or
                 Information.                                         

              TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL          
    10.         Arraignment.                                          
    11.         Pleas.                                                
    12.         Pleadings and Pretrial Motions.                       
    12.1.       Notice of an Alibi Defense.                           
    12.2.       Notice of an Insanity Defense; Mental Examination.    
    12.3.       Notice of a Public-Authority Defense.                 
    12.4.       Disclosure Statement.                                 
    13.         Joint Trial of Separate Cases.                        
    14.         Relief from Prejudicial Joinder.                      
    15.         Depositions.                                          
    16.         Discovery and Inspection.                             
    17.         Subpoena.                                             
    17.1.       Pretrial Conference.                                  

                              TITLE V. VENUE                          
    18.         Place of Prosecution and Trial.                       
    19.         (Reserved).                                           
    20.         Transfer for Plea and Sentence.                       
    21.         Transfer for Trial.                                   
    22.         (Transferred).                                        

                              TITLE VI. TRIAL                          
    23.         Jury or Nonjury Trial.                                
    24.         Trial Jurors.                                         
    25.         Judge's Disability.                                   
    26.         Taking Testimony.                                     
    26.1.       Foreign Law Determination.                            
    26.2.       Producing a Witness's Statement.                      
    26.3.       Mistrial.                                             
    27.         Proving an Official Record.                           
    28.         Interpreters.                                         
    29.         Motion for a Judgment of Acquittal.                   
    29.1.       Closing Argument.                                     
    30.         Jury Instructions.                                    
    31.         Jury Verdict.                                         

                   TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES               
    32.         Sentencing and Judgment.                              
    32.1.       Revoking or Modifying Probation or Supervised Release.
    32.2.       Criminal Forfeiture.                                  
    33.         New Trial.                                            
    34.         Arresting Judgment.                                   
    35.         Correcting or Reducing a Sentence.                    
    36.         Clerical Error.                                       
    37.         (Reserved).                                           
    38.         Staying a Sentence or a Disability.                   
    39.         (Reserved).                                           

             TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS         
    40.         Arrest for Failing to Appear in Another District or
                 for Violating Conditions of Release Set in Another
                 District.                                            
    41.         Search and Seizure.                                   
    42.         Criminal Contempt.                                    

                       TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS                   
    43.         Defendant's Presence.                                 
    44.         Right to and Appointment of Counsel.                  
    45.         Computing and Extending Time.                         
    46.         Release from Custody; Supervising Detention.          
    47.         Motions and Supporting Affadavits.                    
    48.         Dismissal.                                            
    49.         Serving and Filing Papers.                            
    49.1.       Privacy Protection For Filings Made with the Court.   
    50.         Prompt Disposition.                                   
    51.         Preserving Claimed Error.                             
    52.         Harmless and Plain Error.                             
    53.         Courtroom Photographing and Broadcasting Prohibited.  
    54.         (Transferred).                                        
    55.         Records.                                              
    56.         When Court Is Open.                                   
    57.         District Court Rules.                                 
    58.         Petty Offenses and Other Misdemeanors.                
    59.         Matters Before a Magistrate Judge.                    
    60.         Victim's Rights.                                      
    61.         Title.                                                

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE I. APPLICABILITY                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE I. APPLICABILITY

-HEAD-
                          TITLE I. APPLICABILITY                      

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 1                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE I. APPLICABILITY

-HEAD-
    Rule 1. Scope; Definitions

-STATUTE-
      (a) Scope.
        (1) In General. These rules govern the procedure in all
      criminal proceedings in the United States district courts, the
      United States courts of appeals, and the Supreme Court of the
      United States.
        (2) State or Local Judicial Officer. When a rule so states, it
      applies to a proceeding before a state or local judicial officer.
        (3) Territorial Courts. These rules also govern the procedure
      in all criminal proceedings in the following courts:
          (A) the district court of Guam;
          (B) the district court for the Northern Mariana Islands,
        except as otherwise provided by law; and
          (C) the district court of the Virgin Islands, except that the
        prosecution of offenses in that court must be by indictment or
        information as otherwise provided by law.

        (4) Removed Proceedings. Although these rules govern all
      proceedings after removal from a state court, state law governs a
      dismissal by the prosecution.
        (5) Excluded Proceedings. Proceedings not governed by these
      rules include:
          (A) the extradition and rendition of a fugitive;
          (B) a civil property forfeiture for violating a federal
        statute;
          (C) the collection of a fine or penalty;
          (D) a proceeding under a statute governing juvenile
        delinquency to the extent the procedure is inconsistent with
        the statute, unless Rule 20(d) provides otherwise;
          (E) a dispute between seamen under 22 U.S.C. Secs. 256-258;
        and
          (F) a proceeding against a witness in a foreign country under
        28 U.S.C. Sec. 1784.

      (b) Definitions. The following definitions apply to these rules:
        (1) "Attorney for the government" means:
          (A) the Attorney General or an authorized assistant;
          (B) a United States attorney or an authorized assistant;
          (C) when applicable to cases arising under Guam law, the Guam
        Attorney General or other person whom Guam law authorizes to
        act in the matter; and
          (D) any other attorney authorized by law to conduct
        proceedings under these rules as a prosecutor.

        (2) "Court" means a federal judge performing functions
      authorized by law.
        (3) "Federal judge" means:
          (A) a justice or judge of the United States as these terms
        are defined in 28 U.S.C. Sec. 451;
          (B) a magistrate judge; and
          (C) a judge confirmed by the United States Senate and
        empowered by statute in any commonwealth, territory, or
        possession to perform a function to which a particular rule
        relates.

        (4) "Judge" means a federal judge or a state or local judicial
      officer.
        (5) "Magistrate judge" means a United States magistrate judge
      as defined in 28 U.S.C. Secs. 631-639.
        (6) "Oath" includes an affirmation.
        (7) "Organization" is defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 18.
        (8) "Petty offense" is defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 19.
        (9) "State" includes the District of Columbia, and any
      commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
        (10) "State or local judicial officer" means:
          (A) a state or local officer authorized to act under 18
        U.S.C. Sec. 3041; and
          (B) a judicial officer empowered by statute in the District
        of Columbia or in any commonwealth, territory, or possession to
        perform a function to which a particular rule relates.

        (11) "Telephone" means any technology for transmitting live
      electronic voice communication.
        (12) "Victim" means a "crime victim" as defined in 18 U.S.C.
      Sec. 3771(e).

      (c) Authority of a Justice or Judge of the United States. When
    these rules authorize a magistrate judge to act, any other federal
    judge may also act.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 28, 1982, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1982; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008; Apr. 26, 2011, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. These rules are prescribed under the authority of two acts of
    Congress, namely: the Act of June 29, 1940, c. 445, 18 U.S.C. 687
    (Proceedings in criminal cases prior to and including verdict;
    power of Supreme Court to prescribe rules), and the Act of November
    21, 1941, c. 492, 18 U.S.C. 689 (Proceedings to punish for criminal
    contempt of court; application to sections 687 and 688).
      2. The courts of the United States covered by the rules are
    enumerated in Rule 54(a). In addition to Federal courts in the
    continental United States they include district courts in Alaska,
    Hawaii, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. In the Canal Zone only
    the rules governing proceedings after verdict, finding or plea of
    guilty are applicable.
      3. While the rules apply to proceedings before commissioners when
    acting as committing magistrates, they do not govern when a
    commissioner acts as a trial magistrate for the trial of petty
    offenses committed on Federal reservations. That procedure is
    governed by rules adopted by order promulgated by the Supreme Court
    on January 6, 1941 (311 U.S. 733), pursuant to the Act of October
    9, 1940, c. 785, secs. 1-5. See 18 U.S.C. 576-576d [now 3401, 3402]
    (relating to trial of petty offenses on Federal reservations by
    United States commissioners).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      The rule is amended to make clear that the rules are applicable
    to courts of the United States and, where the rule so provides, to
    proceedings before United States magistrates and state or local
    judicial officers.
      Primarily these rules are intended to govern proceedings in
    criminal cases triable in the United States District Court. Special
    rules have been promulgated, pursuant to the authority set forth in
    28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(c), for the trial of "minor offenses" before
    United States magistrates. (See Rules of Procedure for the Trial of
    Minor Offenses Before United States Magistrates (January 27,
    1971).)
      However, there is inevitably some overlap between the two sets of
    rules. The Rules of Criminal Procedure for the United States
    District Courts deal with preliminary, supplementary, and special
    proceedings which will often be conducted before United States
    magistrates. This is true, for example, with regard to rule 3 - The
    Complaint; rule 4 - Arrest Warrant or Summons Upon Complaint; rule
    5 - Initial Appearance Before the Magistrate; and rule 5.1 -
    Preliminary Examination. It is also true, for example, of
    supplementary and special proceedings such as rule 40 - Commitment
    to Another District, Removal; rule 41 - Search and Seizure; and
    rule 46 - Release from Custody. Other of these rules, where
    applicable, also apply to proceedings before United States
    magistrates. See Rules of Procedure for the Trial of Minor Offenses
    Before United States Magistrates, rule 1 - Scope:
      These rules govern the procedure and practice for the trial of
    minor offenses (including petty offenses) before United States
    magistrates under Title 18, U.S.C. Sec. 3401, and for appeals in
    such cases to judges of the district courts. To the extent that
    pretrial and trial procedure and practice are not specifically
    covered by these rules, the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
    apply as to minor offenses other than petty offenses. All other
    proceedings in criminal matters, other than petty offenses, before
    United States magistrates are governed by the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure.
      State and local judicial officers are governed by these rules,
    but only when the rule specifically so provides. This is the case
    of rule 3 - The Complaint; rule 4 - Arrest Warrant or Summons Upon
    Complaint; and rule 5 - Initial Appearance Before the Magistrate.
    These rules confer authority upon the "magistrate," a term which is
    defined in new rule 54 as follows:
      "Magistrate" includes a United States magistrate as defined in 28
    U.S.C. Secs. 631-639, a judge of the United States, another judge
    or judicial officer specifically empowered by statute in force in
    any territory or possession, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or
    the District of Columbia, to perform a function to which a
    particular rule relates, and a state or local judicial officer,
    authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3041 to perform the functions
    prescribed in rules 3, 4, and 5.
      Rule 41 provides that a search warrant may be issued by "a judge
    of a state court of record" and thus confers that authority upon
    appropriate state judicial officers.
      The scope of rules 1 and 54 is discussed in C. Wright, Federal
    Practice and Procedure: Criminal Secs. 21, 871-874 (1969, Supp.
    1971), and 8 and 8A J. Moore, Federal Practice chapters 1 and 54
    (2d ed. Cipes 1970, Supp. 1971).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment corrects an erroneous cross reference, from Rule
    54(c) to Rule 54(a), and replaces the word "defined" with the more
    appropriate word "provided."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 1 is entirely revised and expanded to incorporate Rule 54,
    which deals with the application of the rules. Consistent with the
    title of the existing rule, the Committee believed that a statement
    of the scope of the rules should be placed at the beginning to show
    readers which proceedings are governed by these rules. The
    Committee also revised the rule to incorporate the definitions
    found in Rule 54(c) as a new Rule 1(b).
      Rule 1(a) contains language from Rule 54(b). But language in
    current Rule 54(b)(2)-(4) has been deleted for several reasons:
    First, Rule 54(b)(2) refers to a venue statute that governs an
    offense committed on the high seas or somewhere outside the
    jurisdiction of a particular district; it is unnecessary and has
    been deleted because once venue has been established, the Rules of
    Criminal Procedure automatically apply. Second, Rule 54(b)(3)
    currently deals with peace bonds; that provision is inconsistent
    with the governing statute and has therefore been deleted. Finally,
    Rule 54(b)(4) references proceedings conducted before United States
    Magistrate Judges, a topic now covered in Rule 58.
      Rule 1(a)(5) consists of material currently located in Rule
    54(b)(5), with the exception of the references to the navigation
    laws and to fishery offenses. Those provisions were considered
    obsolete. But if those proceedings were to arise, they would be
    governed by the Rules of Criminal Procedure.
      Rule 1(b) is composed of material currently located in Rule
    54(c), with several exceptions. First, the reference to an "Act of
    Congress" has been deleted from the restyled rules; instead the
    rules use the self-explanatory term "federal statute." Second, the
    language concerning demurrers, pleas in abatement, etc., has been
    deleted as being anachronistic. Third, the definitions of "civil
    action" and "district court" have been deleted. Fourth, the term
    "attorney for the government" has been expanded to include
    reference to those attorneys who may serve as special or
    independent counsel under applicable federal statutes. The term
    "attorney for the government" contemplates an attorney of record in
    the case.
      Fifth, the Committee added a definition for the term "court" in
    Rule 1(b)(2). Although that term originally was almost always
    synonymous with the term "district judge," the term might be
    misleading or unduly narrow because it may not cover the many
    functions performed by magistrate judges. See generally 28 U.S.C.
    Secs. 132, 636. Additionally, the term does not cover circuit
    judges who may be authorized to hold a district court. See 28
    U.S.C. Sec. 291. The proposed definition continues the traditional
    view that "court" means district judge, but also reflects the
    current understanding that magistrate judges act as the "court" in
    many proceedings. Finally, the Committee intends that the term
    "court" be used principally to describe a judicial officer, except
    where a rule uses the term in a spatial sense, such as describing
    proceedings in "open court."
      Sixth, the term "Judge of the United States" has been replaced
    with the term "Federal judge." That term includes Article III
    judges and magistrate judges and, as noted in Rule 1(b)(3)(C),
    federal judges other than Article III judges who may be authorized
    by statute to perform a particular act specified in the Rules of
    Criminal Procedure. The term does not include local judges in the
    District of Columbia. Seventh, the definition of "Law" has been
    deleted as being superfluous and possibly misleading because it
    suggests that administrative regulations are excluded.
      Eighth, the current rules include three definitions of
    "magistrate judge." The term used in amended Rule 1(b)(5) is
    limited to United States magistrate judges. In the current rules
    the term magistrate judge includes not only United States
    magistrate judges, but also district court judges, court of appeals
    judges, Supreme Court justices, and where authorized, state and
    local officers. The Committee believed that the rules should
    reflect current practice, i.e., the wider and almost exclusive use
    of United States magistrate judges, especially in preliminary
    matters. The definition, however, is not intended to restrict the
    use of other federal judicial officers to perform those functions.
    Thus, Rule 1(c) has been added to make it clear that where the
    rules authorize a magistrate judge to act, any other federal judge
    or justice may act.
      Finally, the term "organization" has been added to the list of
    definitions.
      The remainder of the rule has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the rules to make them more easily understood. In
    addition to changes made to improve the clarity, the Committee has
    changed language to make style and terminology consistent
    throughout the Criminal Rules. These changes are intended to be
    stylistic only.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b)(11). This amendment incorporates the definition
    of the term "crime victim" found in the Crime Victims' Rights Act,
    codified at 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(e). It provides that "the term
    'crime victim' means a person directly and proximately harmed as a
    result of the commission of a Federal offense or an offense in the
    District of Columbia."
      Upon occasion, disputes may arise over the question whether a
    particular person is a victim. Although the rule makes no special
    provision for such cases, the courts have the authority to do any
    necessary fact finding and make any necessary legal rulings.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The Committee revised the text of Rule 1(b)(11) in response to
    public comments by transferring portions of the subdivision
    relating to who may assert the rights of a victim to Rule 60(b)(2).
    The Committee Note was revised to reflect that change and to
    indicate that the Court has the power to decide any dispute as to
    who is a victim.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivisions (b)(11) and (12). The added definition clarifies
    that the term "telephone" includes technologies enabling live voice
    conversations that have developed since the traditional "land line"
    telephone. Calls placed by cell phone or from a computer over the
    internet, for example, would be included. The definition is limited
    to live communication in order to ensure contemporaneous
    communication and excludes voice recordings. Live voice
    communication should include services for the hearing impaired, or
    other contemporaneous translation, where necessary.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The text was rephrased by the Committee to describe the telephone
    as a "technology for transmitting electronic voice communication"
    rather than a "form" of communication.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 2                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE I. APPLICABILITY

-HEAD-
    Rule 2. Interpretation

-STATUTE-
      These rules are to be interpreted to provide for the just
    determination of every criminal proceeding, to secure simplicity in
    procedure and fairness in administration, and to eliminate
    unjustifiable expense and delay.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Compare Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix],
    Rule 1 (Scope of Rules), last sentence: "They [the Federal Rules of
    Civil Procedure] shall be construed to secure the just, speedy, and
    inexpensive determination of every action."

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 2 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic. No substantive change
    is intended.
      In particular, Rule 2 has been amended to clarify the purpose of
    the Rules of Criminal Procedure. The words "are intended" have been
    changed to read "are to be interpreted." The Committee believed
    that that was the original intent of the drafters and more
    accurately reflects the purpose of the rules.

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE II. PRELIMINARY
      PROCEEDINGS                                          01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
                     TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS                 

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 3                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 3. The Complaint

-STATUTE-
      The complaint is a written statement of the essential facts
    constituting the offense charged. Except as provided in Rule 4.1,
    it must be made under oath before a magistrate judge or, if none is
    reasonably available, before a state or local judicial officer.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 22, 1993, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 26, 2011, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The rule generally states existing law and practice, 18 U.S.C.
    591 [now 3041] (Arrest and removal for trial); United States v.
    Simon (E.D.Pa.), 248 F. 980; United States v. Maresca (S.D.N.Y.),
    266 F. 713, 719-721. It eliminates, however, the requirement of
    conformity to State law as to the form and sufficiency of the
    complaint. See, also, rule 57(b).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment deletes the reference to "commissioner or other
    officer empowered to commit persons charged with offenses against
    the United States" and substitute therefor "magistrate."
      The change is editorial in nature to conform the language of the
    rule to the recently enacted Federal Magistrates Act. The term
    "magistrate" is defined in rule 54.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 3 is amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic and no substantive
    change is intended, except as described below.
      The amendment makes one change in practice. Currently, Rule 3
    requires the complaint to be sworn before a "magistrate judge,"
    which under current Rule 54 could include a state or local judicial
    officer. Revised Rule 1 no longer includes state and local officers
    in the definition of magistrate judges for the purposes of these
    rules. Instead, the definition includes only United States
    magistrate judges. Rule 3 requires that the complaint be made
    before a United States magistrate judge or before a state or local
    officer. The revised rule does, however, make a change to reflect
    prevailing practice and the outcome desired by the Committee - that
    the procedure take place before a federal judicial officer if one
    is reasonably available. As noted in Rule 1(c), where the rules,
    such as Rule 3, authorize a magistrate judge to act, any other
    federal judge may act.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Under the amended rule, the complaint and supporting material may
    be submitted by telephone or reliable electronic means; however,
    the rule requires that the judicial officer administer the oath or
    affirmation in person or by telephone. The Committee concluded that
    the benefits of making it easier to obtain judicial oversight of
    the arrest decision and the increasing reliability and
    accessibility to electronic communication warranted amendment of
    the rule. The amendment makes clear that the submission of a
    complaint to a judicial officer need not be done in person and may
    instead be made by telephone or other reliable electronic means.
    The successful experiences with electronic applications under Rule
    41, which permits electronic applications for search warrants,
    support a comparable process for arrests. The provisions in Rule 41
    have been transferred to new Rule 4.1, which governs applications
    by telephone or other electronic means under Rules 3, 4, 9, and 41.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the amendment as published.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 4                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 4. Arrest Warrant or Summons on a Complaint

-STATUTE-
      (a) Issuance. If the complaint or one or more affidavits filed
    with the complaint establish probable cause to believe that an
    offense has been committed and that the defendant committed it, the
    judge must issue an arrest warrant to an officer authorized to
    execute it. At the request of an attorney for the government, the
    judge must issue a summons, instead of a warrant, to a person
    authorized to serve it. A judge may issue more than one warrant or
    summons on the same complaint. If a defendant fails to appear in
    response to a summons, a judge may, and upon request of an attorney
    for the government must, issue a warrant.
      (b) Form.
        (1) Warrant. A warrant must:
          (A) contain the defendant's name or, if it is unknown, a name
        or description by which the defendant can be identified with
        reasonable certainty;
          (B) describe the offense charged in the complaint;
          (C) command that the defendant be arrested and brought
        without unnecessary delay before a magistrate judge or, if none
        is reasonably available, before a state or local judicial
        officer; and
          (D) be signed by a judge.

        (2) Summons. A summons must be in the same form as a warrant
      except that it must require the defendant to appear before a
      magistrate judge at a stated time and place.

      (c) Execution or Service, and Return.
        (1) Whom. Only a marshal or other authorized officer may
      execute a warrant. Any person authorized to serve a summons in a
      federal civil action may serve a summons.
        (2) Location. A warrant may be executed, or a summons served,
      within the jurisdiction of the United States or anywhere else a
      federal statute authorizes an arrest.
        (3) Manner.
          (A) A warrant is executed by arresting the defendant. Upon
        arrest, an officer possessing the original or a duplicate
        original warrant must show it to the defendant. If the officer
        does not possess the warrant, the officer must inform the
        defendant of the warrant's existence and of the offense charged
        and, at the defendant's request, must show the original or a
        duplicate original warrant to the defendant as soon as
        possible.
          (B) A summons is served on an individual defendant:
            (i) by delivering a copy to the defendant personally; or
            (ii) by leaving a copy at the defendant's residence or
          usual place of abode with a person of suitable age and
          discretion residing at that location and by mailing a copy to
          the defendant's last known address.

          (C) A summons is served on an organization by delivering a
        copy to an officer, to a managing or general agent, or to
        another agent appointed or legally authorized to receive
        service of process. A copy must also be mailed to the
        organization's last known address within the district or to its
        principal place of business elsewhere in the United States.

        (4) Return.
          (A) After executing a warrant, the officer must return it to
        the judge before whom the defendant is brought in accordance
        with Rule 5. The officer may do so by reliable electronic
        means. At the request of an attorney for the government, an
        unexecuted warrant must be brought back to and canceled by a
        magistrate judge or, if none is reasonably available, by a
        state or local judicial officer.
          (B) The person to whom a summons was delivered for service
        must return it on or before the return day.
          (C) At the request of an attorney for the government, a judge
        may deliver an unexecuted warrant, an unserved summons, or a
        copy of the warrant or summons to the marshal or other
        authorized person for execution or service.

      (d) Warrant by Telephone or Other Reliable Electronic Means. In
    accordance with Rule 4.1, a magistrate judge may issue a warrant or
    summons based on information communicated by telephone or other
    reliable electronic means.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec.
    3(1)-(3), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 370; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1,
    1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1,
    2002; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. The rule states the existing law
    relating to warrants issued by commissioner or other magistrate.
    United States Constitution, Amendment IV; 18 U.S.C. 591 [now 3041]
    (Arrest and removal for trial).
      2. The provision for summons is new, although a summons has been
    customarily used against corporate defendants, 28 U.S.C. 377 [now
    1651] (Power to issue writs); United States v. John Kelso Co., 86
    F. 304 (N.D.Cal., 1898). See also, Albrecht v. United States, 273
    U.S. 1, 8 (1927). The use of the summons in criminal cases is
    sanctioned by many States, among them Indiana, Maryland,
    Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Ohio, and others. See A.L.I.
    Code of Criminal Procedure (1931), Commentaries to secs. 12, 13,
    and 14. The use of the summons is permitted in England by 11 & 12
    Vict., c. 42, sec. 1 (1848). More general use of a summons in place
    of a warrant was recommended by the National Commission on Law
    Observance and Enforcement, Report on Criminal Procedure (1931) 47.
    The Uniform Arrest Act, proposed by the Interstate Commission on
    Crime, provides for a summons. Warner, 28 Va.L.R. 315. See also,
    Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild, R. 1, 6.
      3. The provision for the issuance of additional warrants on the
    same complaint embodies the practice heretofore followed in some
    districts. It is desirable from a practical standpoint, since when
    a complaint names several defendants, it may be preferable to issue
    a separate warrant as to each in order to facilitate service and
    return, especially if the defendants are apprehended at different
    times and places. Berge, 42 Mich.L.R. 353, 356.
      4. Failure to respond to a summons is not a contempt of court,
    but is ground for issuing a warrant.
      Note to Subdivision (b). Compare Rule 9(b) and forms of warrant
    and summons, Appendix of Forms.
      Note to Subdivision (c)(2). This rule and Rule 9(c)(1) modify the
    existing practice under which a warrant may be served only within
    the district in which it is issued. Mitchell v. Dexter, 244 F. 926
    (C.C.A. 1st, 1917); Palmer v. Thompson, 20 App. D.C. 273 (1902);
    but see In re Christian, 82 F. 885 (C.C.W.D.Ark., 1897); 2
    Op.Atty.Gen. 564. When a defendant is apprehended in a district
    other than that in which the prosecution has been instituted, this
    change will eliminate some of the steps that are at present
    followed: the issuance of a warrant in the district where the
    prosecution is pending; the return of the warrant non est inventus;
    the filing of a complaint on the basis of the warrant and its
    return in the district in which the defendant is found; and the
    issuance of another warrant in the latter district. The warrant
    originally issued will have efficacy throughout the United States
    and will constitute authority for arresting the defendant wherever
    found. Waite, 27 Jour. of Am. Judicature Soc. 101, 103. The change
    will not modify or affect the rights of the defendant as to
    removal. See Rule 40. The authority of the marshal to serve process
    is not limited to the district for which he is appointed, 28 U.S.C.
    503 [now 569].
      Note to Subdivision (c)(3). 1. The provision that the arresting
    officer need not have the warrant in his possession at the time of
    the arrest is rendered necessary by the fact that a fugitive may be
    discovered and apprehended by any one of many officers. It is
    obviously impossible for a warrant to be in the possession of every
    officer who is searching for a fugitive or who unexpectedly might
    find himself in a position to apprehend the fugitive. The rule sets
    forth the customary practice in such matters, which has the
    sanction of the courts. "It would be a strong proposition in an
    ordinary felony case to say that a fugitive from justice for whom a
    capias or warrant was outstanding could not be apprehended until
    the apprehending officer had physical possession of the capias or
    the warrant. If such were the law, criminals could circulate freely
    from one end of the land to the other, because they could always
    keep ahead of an officer with the warrant." In re Kosopud (N.D.
    Ohio), 272 F. 330, 336. Waite, 27 Jour. of Am. Judicature Soc. 101,
    103. The rule, however, safeguards the defendant's rights in such
    case.
      2. Service of summons under the rule is substantially the same as
    in civil actions under Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule
    4(d)(1) [28 U.S.C., Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (c)(4). Return of a warrant or summons to the
    commissioner or other officer is provided by 18 U.S.C. 603 [now
    4084] (Writs; copy as jailer's authority). The return of all
    "copies of process" by the commissioner to the clerk of the court
    is provided by 18 U.S.C. 591 [now 3041]; and see Rule 5(c), infra.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      In Giordenello v. United States, 357 U.S. 480 (1958) it was held
    that to support the issuance of a warrant the complaint must
    contain in addition to a statement "of the essential facts
    constituting the offense" (Rule 3) a statement of the facts relied
    upon by the complainant to establish probable cause. The amendment
    permits the complainant to state the facts constituting probable
    cause in a separate affidavit in lieu of spelling them out in the
    complaint. See also Jaben v. United States, 381 U.S. 214 (1965).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Throughout the rule the term "magistrate" is substituted for the
    term "commissioner." Magistrate is defined in rule 54 to include a
    judge of the United States, a United States magistrate, and those
    state and local judicial officers specified in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3041.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are designed to achieve several objectives: (1) to
    make explicit the fact that the determination of probable cause may
    be based upon hearsay evidence; (2) to make clear that probable
    cause is a prerequisite to the issuance of a summons; and (3) to
    give priority to the issuance of a summons rather than a warrant.
      Subdivision (a) makes clear that the normal situation is to issue
    a summons.
      Subdivision (b) provides for the issuance of an arrest warrant in
    lieu of or in addition to the issuance of a summons.
      Subdivision (b)(1) restates the provision of the old rule
    mandating the issuance of a warrant when a defendant fails to
    appear in response to a summons.
      Subdivision (b)(2) provides for the issuance of an arrest warrant
    rather than a summons whenever "a valid reason is shown" for the
    issuance of a warrant. The reason may be apparent from the face of
    the complaint or may be provided by the federal law enforcement
    officer or attorney for the government. See comparable provision in
    rule 9.
      Subdivision (b)(3) deals with the situation in which conditions
    change after a summons has issued. It affords the government an
    opportunity to demonstrate the need for an arrest warrant. This may
    be done in the district in which the defendant is located if this
    is the convenient place to do so.
      Subdivision (c) provides that a warrant or summons may issue on
    the basis of hearsay evidence. What constitutes probable cause is
    left to be dealt with on a case-to-case basis, taking account of
    the unlimited variations in source of information and in the
    opportunity of the informant to perceive accurately the factual
    data which he furnishes. See e.g., Giordenello v. United States,
    357 U.S. 480, 78 S.Ct. 1245, 2 L.Ed.2d 1503 (1958); Aguilar v.
    Texas, 378 U.S. 108, 84 S.Ct. 1509, 12 L.Ed.2d 723 (1964); United
    States v. Ventresca, 380 U.S. 102, 85 S.Ct. 741, 13 L.Ed.2d 684
    (1965); Jaben v. United States, 381 U.S. 214, 85 S.Ct. 1365, 14
    L.Ed.2d 345 (1965); McCray v. Illinois, 386 U.S. 300, 87 S.Ct.
    1056, 18 L.Ed.2d 62 (1967); Spinelli v. United States, 393 U.S.
    410, 89 S.Ct. 584, 21 L.Ed.2d 637 (1969); United States v. Harris,
    403 U.S. 573, 91 S.Ct. 2075, 29 L.Ed.2d 723 (1971); Note, The
    Informer's Tip as Probable Cause for Search or Arrest, 54 Cornell
    L.Rev. 958 (1969); C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure:
    Criminal Sec. 52 (1969, Supp. 1971); 8 S.J. Moore, Federal Practice
    &#182; 4.03 (2d ed. Cipes 1970, Supp. 1971).

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 4 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with arrest procedures
    when a criminal complaint has been filed. It provides in pertinent
    part:
          If it appears . . . that there is probable cause . . . a
        warrant for the arrest of the defendant shall issue to any
        officer authorized by law to execute it. Upon the request of
        the attorney for the government a summons instead of a warrant
        shall issue. [emphasis added]
      The Supreme Court's amendments make a basic change in Rule 4. As
    proposed to be amended, Rule 4 gives priority to the issuance of a
    summons instead of an arrest warrant. In order for the magistrate
    to issue an arrest warrant, the attorney for the government must
    show a "valid reason."
      B. Committee Action. The Committee agrees with and approves the
    basic change in Rule 4. The decision to take a citizen into custody
    is a very important one with far-reaching consequences. That
    decision ought to be made by a neutral official (a magistrate)
    rather than by an interested party (the prosecutor).
      It has been argued that undesirable consequences will result if
    this change is adopted - including an increase in the number of
    fugitives and the introduction of substantial delays in our system
    of criminal justice. [See testimony of Assistant Attorney General
    W. Vincent Rakestraw in Hearings on Proposed Amendments to Federal
    Rules of Criminal Procedure Before the Subcommittee on Criminal
    Justice of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 93d Cong., 2d
    Sess., Serial No. 61, at 41-43 (1974) [hereinafter cited as
    "Hearing I"].] The Committee has carefully considered these
    arguments and finds them to be wanting. [The Advisory Committee on
    Criminal Rules has thoroughly analyzed the arguments raised by Mr.
    Rakestraw and convincingly demonstrated that the undesirable
    consequences predicted will not necessarily result. See Hearings on
    Proposed Amendments to Federal Rules on Proposed Amendments to
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure Before the Subcommittee on
    Criminal Justice of the House Committee on the Judiciary, 94th
    Congress, 1st Session, Serial No. 6, at 208-09 (1975) [hereinafter
    cited "Hearings II"].] The present rule permits the use of a
    summons in lieu of a warrant. The major difference between the
    present rule and the proposed rule is that the present rule vests
    the decision to issue a summons or a warrant in the prosecutor,
    while the proposed rule vests that decision in a judicial officer.
    Thus, the basic premise underlying the arguments against the
    proposed rule is the notion that only the prosecutor can be trusted
    to act responsibly in deciding whether a summons or a warrant shall
    issue.
      The Committee rejects the notion that the federal judiciary
    cannot be trusted to exercise discretion wisely and in the public
    interest.
      The Committee recast the language of Rule 4(b). No change in
    substance is intended. The phrase "valid reason" was changed to
    "good cause," a phrase with which lawyers are more familiar. [Rule
    4, both as proposed by the Supreme Court and as changed by the
    Committee, does not in any way authorize a magistrate to issue a
    summons or a warrant sua sponte, nor does it enlarge, limit or
    change in any way the law governing warrantless arrests.]
      The Committee deleted two sentences from Rule 4(c). These
    sentences permitted a magistrate to question the complainant and
    other witnesses under oath and required the magistrate to keep a
    record or summary of such a proceeding. The Committee does not
    intend this change to discontinue or discourage the practice of
    having the complainant appear personally or the practice of making
    a record or summary of such an appearance. Rather, the Committee
    intended to leave Rule 4(c) neutral on this matter, neither
    encouraging nor discouraging these practices.
      The Committee added a new section that provides that the
    determination of good cause for the issuance of a warrant in lieu
    of a summons shall not be grounds for a motion to suppress
    evidence. This provision does not apply when the issue is whether
    there was probable cause to believe an offense has been committed.
    This provision does not in any way expand or limit the so-called
    "exclusionary rule."

       NOTES OF CONFERENCE COMMITTEE, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-414; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      Rule 4(e)(3) deals with the manner in which warrants and
    summonses may be served. The House version provides two methods for
    serving a summons: (1) personal service upon the defendant, or (2)
    service by leaving it with someone of suitable age at the
    defendant's dwelling and by mailing it to the defendant's last
    known address. The Senate version provides three methods: (1)
    personal service, (2) service by leaving it with someone of
    suitable age at the defendant's dwelling, or (3) service by mailing
    it to defendant's last known address.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 4 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic, except as noted below.
      The first non-stylistic change is in Rule 4(a), which has been
    amended to provide an element of discretion in those situations
    when the defendant fails to respond to a summons. Under the current
    rule, the judge must in all cases issue an arrest warrant. The
    revised rule provides discretion to the judge to issue an arrest
    warrant if the attorney for the government does not request that an
    arrest warrant be issued for a failure to appear.
      Current Rule 4(b), which refers to the fact that hearsay evidence
    may be used to support probable cause, has been deleted. That
    language was added to the rule in 1974, apparently to reflect
    emerging federal case law. See Advisory Committee Note to 1974
    Amendments to Rule 4 (citing cases). A similar amendment was made
    to Rule 41 in 1972. In the intervening years, however, the case law
    has become perfectly clear on that proposition. Thus, the Committee
    believed that the reference to hearsay was no longer necessary.
    Furthermore, the limited reference to hearsay evidence was
    misleading to the extent that it might have suggested that other
    forms of inadmissible evidence could not be considered. For
    example, the rule made no reference to considering a defendant's
    prior criminal record, which clearly may be considered in deciding
    whether probable cause exists. See, e.g., Brinegar v. United
    States, 338 U.S. 160 (1949) (officer's knowledge of defendant's
    prior criminal activity). Rather than address that issue, or any
    other similar issues, the Committee believed that the matter was
    best addressed in Rule 1101(d)(3), Federal Rules of Evidence. That
    rule explicitly provides that the Federal Rules of Evidence do not
    apply to "preliminary examinations in criminal cases, . . .
    issuance of warrants for arrest, criminal summonses, and search
    warrants." The Advisory Committee Note accompanying that rule
    recognizes that: "The nature of the proceedings makes application
    of the formal rules of evidence inappropriate and impracticable."
    The Committee did not intend to make any substantive changes in
    practice by deleting the reference to hearsay evidence.
      New Rule 4(b), which is currently Rule 4(c), addresses the form
    of an arrest warrant and a summons and includes two non-stylistic
    changes. First, Rule 4(b)(1)(C) mandates that the warrant require
    that the defendant be brought "without unnecessary delay" before a
    judge. The Committee believed that this was a more appropriate
    standard than the current requirement that the defendant be brought
    before the "nearest available" magistrate judge. This new language
    accurately reflects the thrust of the original rule, that time is
    of the essence and that the defendant should be brought with
    dispatch before a judicial officer in the district. Second, the
    revised rule states a preference that the defendant be brought
    before a federal judicial officer.
      Rule 4(b)(2) has been amended to require that if a summons is
    issued, the defendant must appear before a magistrate judge. The
    current rule requires the appearance before a "magistrate," which
    could include a state or local judicial officer. This change is
    consistent with the preference for requiring defendants to appear
    before federal judicial officers stated in revised Rule 4(b)(1).
      Rule 4(c) (currently Rule 4(d)) includes three changes. First,
    current Rule 4(d)(2) states the traditional rule recognizing the
    territorial limits for executing warrants. Rule 4(c)(2) includes
    new language that reflects the recent enactment of the Military
    Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (Pub. L. No. 106-523, 114 Stat.
    2488) that permits arrests of certain military and Department of
    Defense personnel overseas. See also 14 U.S.C. Sec. 89 (Coast Guard
    authority to effect arrests outside territorial limits of United
    States). Second, current Rule 4(d)(3) provides that the arresting
    officer is only required to inform the defendant of the offense
    charged and that a warrant exists if the officer does not have a
    copy of the warrant. As revised, Rule 4(c)(3)(A) explicitly
    requires the arresting officer in all instances to inform the
    defendant of the offense charged and of the fact that an arrest
    warrant exists. The new rule continues the current provision that
    the arresting officer need not have a copy of the warrant, but if
    the defendant requests to see it, the officer must show the warrant
    to the defendant as soon as possible. The rule does not attempt to
    define any particular time limits for showing the warrant to the
    defendant.
      Third, Rule 4(c)(3)(C) is taken from former Rule 9(c)(1). That
    provision specifies the manner of serving a summons on an
    organization. The Committee believed that Rule 4 was the more
    appropriate location for general provisions addressing the
    mechanics of arrest warrants and summonses. Revised Rule 9
    liberally cross-references the basic provisions appearing in Rule
    4. Under the amended rule, in all cases in which a summons is being
    served on an organization, a copy of the summons must be mailed to
    the organization.
      Fourth, a change is made in Rule 4(c)(4). Currently, Rule 4(d)(4)
    requires that an unexecuted warrant must be returned to the
    judicial officer or judge who issued it. As amended, Rule
    4(c)(4)(A) provides that after a warrant is executed, the officer
    must return it to the judge before whom the defendant will appear
    under Rule 5. At the government's request, however, an unexecuted
    warrant must be canceled by a magistrate judge. The change
    recognizes the possibility that at the time the warrant is
    returned, the issuing judicial officer may not be available.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 4 is amended in three respects to make the arrest warrant
    process more efficient through the use of technology.
      Subdivision (c). First, Rule 4(c)(3)(A) authorizes a law
    enforcement officer to retain a duplicate original arrest warrant,
    consistent with the change to subdivision (d), which permits a
    court to issue an arrest warrant electronically rather than by
    physical delivery. The duplicate original warrant may be used in
    lieu of the original warrant signed by the magistrate judge to
    satisfy the requirement that the defendant be shown the warrant at
    or soon after an arrest. Cf. Rule 4.1(b)(5) (providing for a
    duplicate original search warrant).
      Second, consistent with the amendment to Rule 41(f), Rule
    4(c)(4)(A) permits an officer to make a return of the arrest
    warrant electronically. Requiring an in-person return can be
    burdensome on law enforcement, particularly in large districts when
    the return can require a great deal of time and travel. In
    contrast, no interest of the accused is affected by allowing what
    is normally a ministerial act to be done electronically.
      Subdivision (d). Rule 4(d) provides that a magistrate judge may
    issue an arrest warrant or summons based on information submitted
    electronically rather than in person. This change works in
    conjunction with the amendment to Rule 3, which permits a
    magistrate judge to consider a criminal complaint and accompanying
    documents that are submitted electronically. Subdivision (d) also
    incorporates the procedures for applying for and issuing electronic
    warrants set forth in Rule 4.1.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the amendment as published.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 struck out subds. (a), (b), and (c) and
    inserted in lieu new subds. (a) and (b); redesignated subd. (d) as
    (c); and redesignated subd. (e) as (d) and amended par. (3) thereof
    generally.

    APPROVAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974;
                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64 provided that: "The amendments
    proposed by the United States Supreme Court to the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure [adding rules 12.1, 12.2 and 29.1 and amending
    rules 4, 9, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 20, 32, and 43 of these rules]
    which are embraced in the order of that Court on April 22, 1974,
    are approved except as otherwise provided in this Act and shall
    take effect on December 1, 1975. Except with respect to the
    amendment to Rule 11, insofar as it adds Rule 11(e)(6), which shall
    take effect on August 1, 1975, the amendments made by section 3 of
    this Act [to rules 4, 9, 11, 12, 12.1, 12.2, 15, 16, 17, 20, 32,
    and 43 of these rules] shall also take effect on December 1, 1975."

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 4.1                                    01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 4.1. Complaint, Warrant, or Summons by Telephone or Other
      Reliable Electronic Means

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. A magistrate judge may consider information
    communicated by telephone or other reliable electronic means when
    reviewing a complaint or deciding whether to issue a warrant or
    summons.
      (b) Procedures. If a magistrate judge decides to proceed under
    this rule, the following procedures apply:
        (1) Taking Testimony Under Oath. The judge must place under
      oath - and may examine - the applicant and any person on whose
      testimony the application is based.
        (2) Creating a Record of the Testimony and Exhibits.
          (A) Testimony Limited to Attestation. If the applicant does
        no more than attest to the contents of a written affidavit
        submitted by reliable electronic means, the judge must
        acknowledge the attestation in writing on the affidavit.
          (B) Additional Testimony or Exhibits. If the judge considers
        additional testimony or exhibits, the judge must:
            (i) have the testimony recorded verbatim by an electronic
          recording device, by a court reporter, or in writing;
            (ii) have any recording or reporter's notes transcribed,
          have the transcription certified as accurate, and file it;
            (iii) sign any other written record, certify its accuracy,
          and file it; and
            (iv) make sure that the exhibits are filed.

        (3) Preparing a Proposed Duplicate Original of a Complaint,
      Warrant, or Summons. The applicant must prepare a proposed
      duplicate original of a complaint, warrant, or summons, and must
      read or otherwise transmit its contents verbatim to the judge.
        (4) Preparing an Original Complaint, Warrant, or Summons. If
      the applicant reads the contents of the proposed duplicate
      original, the judge must enter those contents into an original
      complaint, warrant, or summons. If the applicant transmits the
      contents by reliable electronic means, the transmission received
      by the judge may serve as the original.
        (5) Modification. The judge may modify the complaint, warrant,
      or summons. The judge must then:
          (A) transmit the modified version to the applicant by
        reliable electronic means; or
          (B) file the modified original and direct the applicant to
        modify the proposed duplicate original accordingly.

        (6) Issuance. To issue the warrant or summons, the judge must:
          (A) sign the original documents;
          (B) enter the date and time of issuance on the warrant or
        summons; and
          (C) transmit the warrant or summons by reliable electronic
        means to the applicant or direct the applicant to sign the
        judge's name and enter the date and time on the duplicate
        original.

      (c) Suppression Limited. Absent a finding of bad faith, evidence
    obtained from a warrant issued under this rule is not subject to
    suppression on the ground that issuing the warrant in this manner
    was unreasonable under the circumstances.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011                  
      New Rule 4.1 brings together in one rule the procedures for using
    a telephone or other reliable electronic means for reviewing
    complaints and applying for and issuing warrants and summonses. In
    drafting Rule 4.1, the Committee recognized that modern
    technological developments have improved access to judicial
    officers, thereby reducing the necessity of government action
    without prior judicial approval. Rule 4.1 prescribes uniform
    procedures and ensures an accurate record.
      The procedures that have governed search warrants "by telephonic
    or other means," formerly in Rule 41(d)(3) and (e)(3), have been
    relocated to this rule, reordered for easier application, and
    extended to arrest warrants, complaints, and summonses. Successful
    experience using electronic applications for search warrants under
    Rule 41, combined with increased access to reliable electronic
    communication, support the extension of these procedures to arrest
    warrants, complaints, and summonses.
      With one exception noted in the next paragraph, the new rule
    preserves the procedures formerly in Rule 41 without change. By
    using the term "magistrate judge," the rule continues to require,
    as did former Rule 41(d)(3) and (e)(3), that a federal judge (and
    not a state judge) handle electronic applications, approvals, and
    issuances. The rule continues to require that the judge place an
    applicant under oath over the telephone, and permits the judge to
    examine the applicant, as Rule 41 had provided. Rule 4.1(b)
    continues to require that when electronic means are used to issue
    the warrant, the magistrate judge retain the original warrant.
    Minor changes in wording and reorganization of the language
    formerly in Rule 41 were made to aid in application of the rules,
    with no intended change in meaning.
      The only substantive change to the procedures formerly in Rule
    41(d)(3) and (e)(3) appears in new Rule 4.1(b)(2)(A). Former Rule
    41(d)(3)(B)(ii) required the magistrate judge to make a verbatim
    record of the entire conversation with the applicant. New Rule
    4.1(b)(2)(A) provides that when a warrant application and affidavit
    are sent electronically to the magistrate judge and the telephone
    conversation between the magistrate judge and affiant is limited to
    attesting to those written documents, a verbatim record of the
    entire conversation is no longer required. Rather, the magistrate
    judge should simply acknowledge in writing the attestation on the
    affidavit. This may be done, for example, by signing the jurat
    included on the Administrative Office of U.S. Courts form. Rule
    4.1(b)(2)(B) carries forward the requirements formerly in Rule 41
    to cases in which the magistrate judge considers testimony or
    exhibits in addition to the affidavit. In addition, Rule 4.1(b)(6)
    specifies that in order to issue a warrant or summons the
    magistrate judge must sign all of the original documents and enter
    the date and time of issuance on the warrant or summons. This
    procedure will create and maintain a complete record of the warrant
    application process.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    Published subdivision (a) referred to the action of a magistrate
    judge as "deciding whether to approve a complaint." To accurately
    describe the judge's action, it was rephrased to refer to the judge
    "reviewing a complaint."
      Subdivisions (b)(2) and (3) were combined into subdivisions
    (b)(2)(A) and (B) to clarify the procedures applicable when the
    applicant does no more than attest to the contents of a written
    affidavit and those applicable when additional testimony or
    exhibits are presented. The clauses in subparagraph (B) were
    reordered and further divided into items (i) through (iv).
    Subsequent subdivisions were renumbered because of the merger of
    (b)(2) and (3).
      In subdivision (b)(5), language was added requiring the judge to
    file the modified original if the judge has directed an applicant
    to modify a duplicate original. This will ensure that a complete
    record is preserved. Additionally, the clauses in this subdivision
    were broken out into subparagraphs (A) and (B).
      In subdivision (b)(6), introductory language erroneously
    referring to a judge's approval of a complaint was deleted, and the
    rule was revised to refer only to the steps necessary to issue a
    warrant or summons, which are the actions taken by the judicial
    officer.
      In subdivision (b)(6)(A), the requirement that the judge "sign
    the original" was amended to require signing of "the original
    documents." This is broad enough to encompass signing a summons, an
    arrest or search warrant, and the current practice of the judge
    signing the jurat on complaint forms. Depending on the nature of
    the case, it might also include many other kinds of documents, such
    as the jurat on affidavits, the certifications of written records
    supplementing the transmitted affidavit, or papers that correct or
    modify affidavits or complaints.
      In subdivision (b)(6)(B), the superfluous and anachronistic
    reference to the "face" of a document was deleted, and rephrasing
    clarified that the action is the entry of the date and time of "the
    approval of a warrant or summons." Additionally, subdivision
    (b)(6)(C) was modified to require that the judge must direct the
    applicant not only to sign the duplicate original with the judge's
    name, but also to note the date and time.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 5                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 5. Initial Appearance

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General.
        (1) Appearance Upon an Arrest.
          (A) A person making an arrest within the United States must
        take the defendant without unnecessary delay before a
        magistrate judge, or before a state or local judicial officer
        as Rule 5(c) provides, unless a statute provides otherwise.
          (B) A person making an arrest outside the United States must
        take the defendant without unnecessary delay before a
        magistrate judge, unless a statute provides otherwise.

        (2) Exceptions.
          (A) An officer making an arrest under a warrant issued upon a
        complaint charging solely a violation of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1073
        need not comply with this rule if:
            (i) the person arrested is transferred without unnecessary
          delay to the custody of appropriate state or local
          authorities in the district of arrest; and
            (ii) an attorney for the government moves promptly, in the
          district where the warrant was issued, to dismiss the
          complaint.

          (B) If a defendant is arrested for violating probation or
        supervised release, Rule 32.1 applies.
          (C) If a defendant is arrested for failing to appear in
        another district, Rule 40 applies.

        (3) Appearance Upon a Summons. When a defendant appears in
      response to a summons under Rule 4, a magistrate judge must
      proceed under Rule 5(d) or (e), as applicable.

      (b) Arrest Without a Warrant. If a defendant is arrested without
    a warrant, a complaint meeting Rule 4(a)'s requirement of probable
    cause must be promptly filed in the district where the offense was
    allegedly committed.
      (c) Place of Initial Appearance; Transfer to Another District.
        (1) Arrest in the District Where the Offense Was Allegedly
      Committed. If the defendant is arrested in the district where the
      offense was allegedly committed:
          (A) the initial appearance must be in that district; and
          (B) if a magistrate judge is not reasonably available, the
        initial appearance may be before a state or local judicial
        officer.

        (2) Arrest in a District Other Than Where the Offense Was
      Allegedly Committed. If the defendant was arrested in a district
      other than where the offense was allegedly committed, the initial
      appearance must be:
          (A) in the district of arrest; or
          (B) in an adjacent district if:
            (i) the appearance can occur more promptly there; or
            (ii) the offense was allegedly committed there and the
          initial appearance will occur on the day of arrest.

        (3) Procedures in a District Other Than Where the Offense Was
      Allegedly Committed. If the initial appearance occurs in a
      district other than where the offense was allegedly committed,
      the following procedures apply:
          (A) the magistrate judge must inform the defendant about the
        provisions of Rule 20;
          (B) if the defendant was arrested without a warrant, the
        district court where the offense was allegedly committed must
        first issue a warrant before the magistrate judge transfers the
        defendant to that district;
          (C) the magistrate judge must conduct a preliminary hearing
        if required by Rule 5.1;
          (D) the magistrate judge must transfer the defendant to the
        district where the offense was allegedly committed if:
            (i) the government produces the warrant, a certified copy
          of the warrant, or a reliable electronic form of either; and
            (ii) the judge finds that the defendant is the same person
          named in the indictment, information, or warrant; and

          (E) when a defendant is transferred and discharged, the clerk
        must promptly transmit the papers and any bail to the clerk in
        the district where the offense was allegedly committed.

      (d) Procedure in a Felony Case.
        (1) Advice. If the defendant is charged with a felony, the
      judge must inform the defendant of the following:
          (A) the complaint against the defendant, and any affidavit
        filed with it;
          (B) the defendant's right to retain counsel or to request
        that counsel be appointed if the defendant cannot obtain
        counsel;
          (C) the circumstances, if any, under which the defendant may
        secure pretrial release;
          (D) any right to a preliminary hearing; and
          (E) the defendant's right not to make a statement, and that
        any statement made may be used against the defendant.

        (2) Consulting with Counsel. The judge must allow the defendant
      reasonable opportunity to consult with counsel.
        (3) Detention or Release. The judge must detain or release the
      defendant as provided by statute or these rules.
        (4) Plea. A defendant may be asked to plead only under Rule 10.

      (e) Procedure in a Misdemeanor Case. If the defendant is charged
    with a misdemeanor only, the judge must inform the defendant in
    accordance with Rule 58(b)(2).
      (f) Video Teleconferencing. Video teleconferencing may be used to
    conduct an appearance under this rule if the defendant consents.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1, 1982; Pub. L. 98-473,
    title II, Sec. 209(a), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 1986; Mar. 9, 1987,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1987; May 1, 1990, eff. Dec. 1, 1990; Apr. 22, 1993,
    eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 27, 1995, eff. Dec. 1, 1995; Apr. 29, 2002,
    eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec. 1, 2006.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. The time within which a prisoner must
    be brought before a committing magistrate is defined differently in
    different statutes. The rule supersedes all statutory provisions on
    this point and fixes a single standard, i.e., "without unnecessary
    delay", 18 U.S.C. [former] 593 (Operating illicit distillery;
    arrest; bail); sec. [former] 595 (Persons arrested taken before
    nearest officer for hearing); 5 U.S.C. 300a [now 18 U.S.C. 3052,
    3107] (Division of Investigation; authority of officers to serve
    warrants and make arrests); 16 U.S.C. 10 (Arrests by employees of
    park service for violations of laws and regulations); sec. 706
    (Migratory Bird Treaty Act; arrests; search warrants); D.C. Code
    (1940), Title 4, sec. 140 (Arrests without warrant); see, also, 33
    U.S.C. 436, 446, 452; 46 U.S.C. 708 [now 18 U.S.C. 2279]. What
    constitutes "unnecessary delay", i.e., reasonable time within which
    the prisoner should be brought before a committing magistrate, must
    be determined in the light of all the facts and circumstances of
    the case. The following authorities discuss the question what
    constitutes reasonable time for this purpose in various situations:
    Carroll v. Parry, 48 App.D.C. 453; Janus v. United States, 38 F.2d
    431 (C.C.A. 9th); Commonwealth v. Di Stasio, 294 Mass. 273; State
    v. Freeman, 86 N.C. 683; Peloquin v. Hibner, 231 Wis. 77; see,
    also, Warner, 28 Va.L.R. 315, 339-341.
      2. The rule also states the prevailing state practice, A.L.I.
    Code of Criminal Procedure (1931), Commentaries to secs. 35, 36.
      Note to Subdivisions (b) and (c). 1. These rules prescribe a
    uniform procedure to be followed at preliminary hearings before a
    commissioner. They supersede the general provisions of 18 U.S.C.
    591 [now 3041] (Arrest and removal for trial). The procedure
    prescribed by the rules is that generally prevailing. See Wood v.
    United States, 128 F.2d 265, 271-272 (App. D.C.); A.L.I. Code of
    Criminal Procedure (1931), secs. 39-60 and Commentaries thereto;
    Manual for United States Commissioners, pp. 6-10, published by
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts.
      2. Pleas before a commissioner are excluded, as a plea of guilty
    at this stage has no legal status or function except to serve as a
    waiver of preliminary examination. It has been held inadmissible in
    evidence at the trial, if the defendant was not represented by
    counsel when the plea was entered. Wood v. United States, 128 F.2d
    265 (App. D.C.) The rule expressly provides for a waiver of
    examination, thereby eliminating any necessity for a provision as
    to plea.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The first change is designed to insure that under the revision
    made in Rule 4(a) the defendant arrested on a warrant will receive
    the same information concerning the basis for the issuance of the
    warrant as would previously have been given him by the complaint
    itself.
      The second change obligates the commissioner to inform the
    defendant of his right to request the assignment of counsel if he
    is unable to obtain counsel. Cf. the amendment to Rule 44, and the
    Advisory Committee's Note thereon.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      There are a number of changes made in rule 5 which are designed
    to improve the editorial clarity of the rule; to conform the rule
    to the Federal Magistrates Act; and to deal explicitly in the rule
    with issues as to which the rule was silent and the law uncertain.
      The principal editorial change is to deal separately with the
    initial appearance before the magistrate and the preliminary
    examination. They are dealt with together in old rule 5. They are
    separated in order to prevent confusion as to whether they
    constitute a single or two separate proceedings. Although the
    preliminary examination can be held at the time of the initial
    appearance, in practice this ordinarily does not occur. Usually
    counsel need time to prepare for the preliminary examination and as
    a consequence a separate date is typically set for the preliminary
    examination.
      Because federal magistrates are reasonably available to conduct
    initial appearances, the rule is drafted on the assumption that the
    initial appearance is before a federal magistrate. If experience
    under the act indicates that there must be frequent appearances
    before state or local judicial officers it may be desirable to
    draft an additional rule, such as the following, detailing the
    procedure for an initial appearance before a state or local
    judicial officer:
      Initial Appearance Before a State or Local Judicial Officer. If a
    United States magistrate is not reasonably available under rule
    5(a), the arrested person shall be brought before a state or local
    judicial officer authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3041, and such
    officer shall inform the person of the rights specified in rule
    5(c) and shall authorize the release of the arrested person under
    the terms provided for by these rules and by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3146.
    The judicial officer shall immediately transmit any written order
    of release and any papers filed before him to the appropriate
    United States magistrate of the district and order the arrested
    person to appear before such United States magistrate within three
    days if not in custody or at the next regular hour of business of
    the United States magistrate if the arrested person is retained in
    custody. Upon his appearance before the United States magistrate,
    the procedure shall be that prescribed in rule 5.
      Several changes are made to conform the language of the rule to
    the Federal Magistrates Act.
      (1) The term "magistrate," which is defined in new rule 54, is
    substituted for the term "commissioner." As defined, "magistrate"
    includes those state and local judicial officers specified in 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3041, and thus the initial appearance may be before a
    state or local judicial officer when a federal magistrate is not
    reasonably available. This is made explicit in subdivision (a).
      (2) Subdivision (b) conforms the rule to the procedure prescribed
    in the Federal Magistrate Act when a defendant appears before a
    magistrate charged with a "minor offense" as defined in 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3401(f):

    "misdemeanors punishable under the laws of the United States, the
    penalty for which does not exceed imprisonment for a period of one
    year, or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both, except that such
    term does not include . . . [specified exceptions]."

    If the "minor offense" is tried before a United States magistrate,
    the procedure must be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for
    the Trial of Minor Offenses Before United States Magistrates,
    (January 27, 1971).
      (3) Subdivision (d) makes clear that a defendant is not entitled
    to a preliminary examination if he has been indicted by a grand
    jury prior to the date set for the preliminary examination or, in
    appropriate cases, if any information is filed in the district
    court prior to that date. See C. Wright, Federal Practice and
    Procedure: Criminal Sec. 80, pp. 137-140 (1969, Supp. 1971). This
    is also provided in the Federal Magistrates Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3060(e).
      Rule 5 is also amended to deal with several issues not dealt with
    in old rule 5:
      Subdivision (a) is amended to make clear that a complaint,
    complying with the requirements of rule 4(a), must be filed
    whenever a person has been arrested without a warrant. This means
    that the complaint, or an affidavit or affidavits filed with the
    complaint, must show probable cause. As provided in rule 4(a) the
    showing of probable cause "may be based upon hearsay evidence in
    whole or in part."
      Subdivision (c) provides that defendant should be notified of the
    general circumstances under which he is entitled to pretrial
    release under the Bail Reform Act of 1966 (18 U.S.C. Secs. 3141-
    3152). Defendants often do not in fact have counsel at the initial
    appearance and thus, unless told by the magistrate, may be unaware
    of their right to pretrial release. See C. Wright, Federal Practice
    and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 78 N. 61 (1969).
      Subdivision (c) makes clear that a defendant who does not waive
    his right to trial before a judge of the district court is entitled
    to a preliminary examination to determine probable cause for any
    offense except a petty offense. It also, by necessary implication,
    makes clear that a defendant is not entitled to a preliminary
    examination if he consents to be tried on the issue of guilt or
    innocence by the United States magistrate, even though the offense
    may be one not heretofore triable by the United States commissioner
    and therefore one as to which the defendant had a right to a
    preliminary examination. The rationale is that the preliminary
    examination serves only to justify holding the defendant in custody
    or on bail during the period of time it takes to bind the defendant
    over to the district court for trial. See State v. Solomon, 158
    Wis. 146, 147 N.W. 640 (1914). A similar conclusion is reached in
    the New York Proposed Criminal Procedure Law. See McKinney's
    Session Law News, April 10, 1969, at p. A-119.
      Subdivision (c) also contains time limits within which the
    preliminary examination must be held. These are taken from 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3060. The provisions for the extension of the
    prescribed time limits are the same as the provisions of 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3060 with two exceptions: The new language allows delay
    consented to by the defendant only if there is "a showing of good
    cause, taking into account the public interest in the prompt
    disposition of criminal cases." This reflects the view of the
    Advisory Committee that delay, whether prosecution or defense
    induced, ought to be avoided whenever possible. The second
    difference between the new rule and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060 is that the
    rule allows the decision to grant a continuance to be made by a
    United States magistrate as well as by a judge of the United
    States. This reflects the view of the Advisory Committee that the
    United States magistrate should have sufficient judicial competence
    to make decisions such as that contemplated in subdivision (c).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment of subdivision (b) reflects the recent amendment of
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3401(a), by the Federal Magistrate Act of 1979, to
    read: "When specially designated to exercise such jurisdiction by
    the district court or courts he serves, any United States
    magistrate shall have jurisdiction to try persons accused of, and
    sentence persons convicted of, misdemeanors committed within that
    judicial district."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1990 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 5(b) is amended to conform the rule to Rule 58.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1995 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to Rule 5 is intended to address the interplay
    between the requirements for a prompt appearance before a
    magistrate judge and the processing of persons arrested for the
    offense of unlawfully fleeing to avoid prosecution under 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 1073, when no federal prosecution is intended. Title 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 1073 provides in part:

      Whoever moves or travels in interstate or foreign commerce with
      intent . . . to avoid prosecution, or custody or confinement
      after conviction, under the laws of the place from which he flees
      . . . shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more
      than five years, or both.

      Violations of this section may be prosecuted . . . only upon
      formal approval in writing by the Attorney General, the Deputy
      Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, or an Assistant
      Attorney General of the United States, which function of
      approving prosecutions may not be delegated.

    In enacting Sec. 1073, Congress apparently intended to provide
    assistance to state criminal justice authorities in an effort to
    apprehend and prosecute state offenders. It also appears that by
    requiring permission of high ranking officials, Congress intended
    that prosecutions be limited in number. In fact, prosecutions under
    this section have been rare. The purpose of the statute is
    fulfilled when the person is apprehended and turned over to state
    or local authorities. In such cases the requirement of Rule 5 that
    any person arrested under a federal warrant must be brought before
    a federal magistrate judge becomes a largely meaningless exercise
    and a needless demand upon federal judicial resources.
      In addressing this problem, several options are available to
    federal authorities when no federal prosecution is intended to
    ensue after the arrest. First, once federal authorities locate a
    fugitive, they may contact local law enforcement officials who make
    the arrest based upon the underlying out-of-state warrant. In that
    instance, Rule 5 is not implicated and the United States Attorney
    in the district issuing the Sec. 1073 complaint and warrant can
    take action to dismiss both. In a second scenario, the fugitive is
    arrested by federal authorities who, in compliance with Rule 5,
    bring the person before a federal magistrate judge. If local law
    enforcement officers are present, they can take custody, once the
    United States Attorney informs the magistrate judge that there will
    be no prosecution under Sec. 1073. Depending on the availability of
    state or local officers, there may be some delay in the Rule 5
    proceedings; any delays following release to local officials,
    however, would not be a function of Rule 5. In a third situation,
    federal authorities arrest the fugitive but local law enforcement
    authorities are not present at the Rule 5 appearance. Depending on
    a variety of practices, the magistrate judge may calendar a removal
    hearing under Rule 40, or order that the person be held in federal
    custody pending further action by the local authorities.
      Under the amendment, officers arresting a fugitive charged only
    with violating Sec. 1073 need not bring the person before a
    magistrate judge under Rule 5(a) if there is no intent to actually
    prosecute the person under that charge. Two requirements, however,
    must be met. First, the arrested fugitive must be transferred
    without unnecessary delay to the custody of state officials.
    Second, steps must be taken in the appropriate district to dismiss
    the complaint alleging a violation of Sec. 1073. The rule continues
    to contemplate that persons arrested by federal officials are
    entitled to prompt handling of federal charges, if prosecution is
    intended, and prompt transfer to state custody if federal
    prosecution is not contemplated.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 5 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic, except as noted below.
      Rule 5 has been completely revised to more clearly set out the
    procedures for initial appearances and to recognize that such
    appearances may be required at various stages of a criminal
    proceeding, for example, where a defendant has been arrested for
    violating the terms of probation.
      Rule 5(a), which governs initial appearances by an arrested
    defendant before a magistrate judge, includes several changes. The
    first is a clarifying change; revised Rule 5(a)(1) provides that a
    person making the arrest must bring the defendant "without
    unnecessary delay" before a magistrate judge, instead of the
    current reference to "nearest available" magistrate judge. This
    language parallels changes in Rule 4 and reflects the view that
    time is of the essence. The Committee intends no change in
    practice. In using the term, the Committee recognizes that on
    occasion there may be necessary delay in presenting the defendant,
    for example, due to weather conditions or other natural causes. A
    second change is non-stylistic, and reflects the stated preference
    (as in other provisions throughout the rules) that the defendant be
    brought before a federal judicial officer. Only if a magistrate
    judge is not available should the defendant be taken before a state
    or local officer.
      The third sentence in current Rule 5(a), which states that a
    magistrate judge must proceed in accordance with the rule where a
    defendant is arrested without a warrant or given a summons, has
    been deleted because it is unnecessary.
      Rule 5(a)(1)(B) codifies the caselaw reflecting that the right to
    an initial appearance applies not only when a person is arrested
    within the United States but also when an arrest occurs outside the
    United States. See, e.g., United States v. Purvis, 768 F.2d 1237
    (11th Cir. 1985); United States v. Yunis, 859 F.2d 953 (D.C. Cir.
    1988). In these circumstances, the Committee believes - and the
    rule so provides - that the initial appearance should be before a
    federal magistrate judge rather than a state or local judicial
    officer. Rule 5(a)(1)(B) has also been amended by adding the words,
    "unless a federal statute provides otherwise," to reflect recent
    enactment of the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act (Pub.
    L. No. 106-523, 114 Stat. 2488) that permits certain persons
    overseas to appear before a magistrate judge by telephonic
    communication.
      Rule 5(a)(2)(A) consists of language currently located in Rule 5
    that addresses the procedure to be followed where a defendant has
    been arrested under a warrant issued on a complaint charging solely
    a violation of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1073 (unlawful flight to avoid
    prosecution). Rule 5(a)(2)(B) and 5(a)(2)(C) are new provisions.
    They are intended to make it clear that when a defendant is
    arrested for violating probation or supervised release, or for
    failing to appear in another district, Rules 32.1 or 40 apply. No
    change in practice is intended.
      Rule 5(a)(3) is new and fills a perceived gap in the rules. It
    recognizes that a defendant may be subjected to an initial
    appearance under this rule if a summons was issued under Rule 4,
    instead of an arrest warrant. If the defendant is appearing
    pursuant to a summons in a felony case, Rule 5(d) applies, and if
    the defendant is appearing in a misdemeanor case, Rule 5(e)
    applies.
      Rule 5(b) carries forward the requirement in former Rule 5(a)
    that if the defendant is arrested without a warrant, a complaint
    must be promptly filed.
      Rule 5(c) is a new provision and sets out where an initial
    appearance is to take place. If the defendant is arrested in the
    district where the offense was allegedly committed, under Rule
    5(c)(1) the defendant must be taken to a magistrate judge in that
    district. If no magistrate judge is reasonably available, a state
    or local judicial officer may conduct the initial appearance. On
    the other hand, if the defendant is arrested in a district other
    than the district where the offense was allegedly committed, Rule
    5(c)(2) governs. In those instances, the defendant must be taken to
    a magistrate judge within the district of arrest, unless the
    appearance can take place more promptly in an adjacent district.
    The Committee recognized that in some cases, the nearest magistrate
    judge may actually be across a district's lines. The remainder of
    Rule 5(c)(2) includes material formerly located in Rule 40.
      Rule 5(d), derived from current Rule 5(c), has been retitled to
    more clearly reflect the subject of that subdivision and the
    procedure to be used if the defendant is charged with a felony.
    Rule 5(d)(4) has been added to make clear that a defendant may only
    be called upon to enter a plea under the provisions of Rule 10.
    That language is intended to reflect and reaffirm current practice.
      The remaining portions of current Rule 5(c) have been moved to
    Rule 5.1, which deals with preliminary hearings in felony cases.
      The major substantive change is in new Rule 5(f), which permits
    video teleconferencing for an appearance under this rule if the
    defendant consents. This change reflects the growing practice among
    state courts to use video teleconferencing to conduct initial
    proceedings. A similar amendment has been made to Rule 10
    concerning arraignments.
      In amending Rules 5, 10, and 43 (which generally requires the
    defendant's presence at all proceedings), the Committee carefully
    considered the argument that permitting a defendant to appear by
    video teleconferencing might be considered an erosion of an
    important element of the judicial process. Much can be lost when
    video teleconferencing occurs. First, the setting itself may not
    promote the public's confidence in the integrity and solemnity of a
    federal criminal proceeding; that is the view of some who have
    witnessed the use of such proceedings in some state jurisdictions.
    While it is difficult to quantify the intangible benefits and
    impact of requiring a defendant to be brought before a federal
    judicial officer in a federal courtroom, the Committee realizes
    that something is lost when a defendant is not required to make a
    personal appearance. A related consideration is that the defendant
    may be located in a room that bears no resemblance whatsoever to a
    judicial forum and the equipment may be inadequate for high-quality
    transmissions. Second, using video teleconferencing can interfere
    with counsel's ability to meet personally with his or her client at
    what, at least in that jurisdiction, might be an important
    appearance before a magistrate judge. Third, the defendant may miss
    an opportunity to meet with family or friends, and others who might
    be able to assist the defendant, especially in any attempts to
    obtain bail. Finally, the magistrate judge may miss an opportunity
    to accurately assess the physical, emotional, and mental condition
    of a defendant - a factor that may weigh on pretrial decisions,
    such as release from detention.
      On the other hand, the Committee considered that in some
    jurisdictions, the court systems face a high volume of criminal
    proceedings. In other jurisdictions, counsel may not be appointed
    until after the initial appearance and thus there is no real
    problem with a defendant being able to consult with counsel before
    or during that proceeding. The Committee was also persuaded to
    adopt the amendment because in some jurisdictions delays may occur
    in travel time from one location to another - in some cases
    requiring either the magistrate judge or the participants to travel
    long distances. In those instances, it is not unusual for a defense
    counsel to recognize the benefit of conducting a video
    teleconferenced proceeding, which will eliminate lengthy and
    sometimes expensive travel or permit the initial appearance to be
    conducted much sooner. Finally, the Committee was aware that in
    some jurisdictions, courtrooms now contain high quality technology
    for conducting such procedures, and that some courts are already
    using video teleconferencing - with the consent of the parties.
      The Committee believed that, on balance and in appropriate
    circumstances, the court and the defendant should have the option
    of using video teleconferencing, as long as the defendant consents
    to that procedure. The question of when it would be appropriate for
    a defendant to consent is not spelled out in the rule. That is left
    to the defendant and the court in each case. Although the rule does
    not specify any particular technical requirements regarding the
    system to be used, if the equipment or technology is deficient, the
    public may lose confidence in the integrity and dignity of the
    proceedings.
      The amendment does not require a court to adopt or use video
    teleconferencing. In deciding whether to use such procedures, a
    court may wish to consider establishing clearly articulated
    standards and procedures. For example, the court would normally
    want to insure that the location used for televising the video
    teleconferencing is conducive to the solemnity of a federal
    criminal proceeding. That might require additional coordination,
    for example, with the detention facility to insure that the room,
    furniture, and furnishings reflect the dignity associated with a
    federal courtroom. Provision should also be made to insure that the
    judge, or a surrogate, is in a position to carefully assess the
    defendant's condition. And the court should also consider
    establishing procedures for insuring that counsel and the defendant
    (and even the defendant's immediate family) are provided an ample
    opportunity to confer in private.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivisions (c)(3)(C) and (D). The amendment to Rule 5(c)(3)(C)
    parallels an amendment to Rule 58(b)(2)(G), which in turn has been
    amended to remove a conflict between that rule and Rule 5.1(a),
    concerning the right to a preliminary hearing.
      Rule 5(c)(3)(D) has been amended to permit the magistrate judge
    to accept a warrant by reliable electronic means. Currently, the
    rule requires the government to produce the original warrant, a
    certified copy of the warrant, or a facsimile copy of either of
    those documents. This amendment parallels similar changes to Rules
    32.1(a)(5)(B)(i) and 41. The reference to a facsimile version of
    the warrant was removed because the Committee believed that the
    broader term "electronic form" includes facsimiles.
      The amendment reflects a number of significant improvements in
    technology. First, more courts are now equipped to receive filings
    by electronic means, and indeed, some courts encourage or require
    that certain documents be filed by electronic means. Second, the
    technology has advanced to the state where such filings could be
    sent from, and received at, locations outside the courthouse.
    Third, electronic media can now provide improved quality of
    transmission and security measures. In short, in a particular case,
    using electronic media to transmit a document might be just as
    reliable and efficient as using a facsimile.
      The term "electronic" is used to provide some flexibility to the
    rule and make allowance for further technological advances in
    transmitting data.
      The rule requires that if electronic means are to be used to
    transmit a warrant to the magistrate judge, that the means used be
    "reliable." While the rule does not further define that term, the
    Committee envisions that a court or magistrate judge would make
    that determination as a local matter. In deciding whether a
    particular electronic means, or media, would be reliable, the court
    might consider first, the expected quality and clarity of the
    transmission. For example, is it possible to read the contents of
    the warrant in its entirety, as though it were the original or a
    clean photocopy? Second, the court may consider whether security
    measures are available to insure that the transmission is not
    compromised. In this regard, most courts are now equipped to
    require that certain documents contain a digital signature, or some
    other similar system for restricting access. Third, the court may
    consider whether there are reliable means of preserving the
    document for later use.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    changes in the Rule and Committee Note as published. It considered
    and rejected the suggestion that the rule should refer specifically
    to non-certified photocopies, believing it preferable to allow the
    definition of reliability to be resolved at the local level. The
    Committee Note provides examples of the factors that would bear on
    reliability.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1984 - Subd. (c). Pub. L. 98-473 substituted "shall detain or
    conditionally release the defendant" for "shall admit the defendant
    to bail".

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 5.1                                    01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE II. PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 5.1. Preliminary Hearing

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. If a defendant is charged with an offense other
    than a petty offense, a magistrate judge must conduct a preliminary
    hearing unless:
        (1) the defendant waives the hearing;
        (2) the defendant is indicted;
        (3) the government files an information under Rule 7(b)
      charging the defendant with a felony;
        (4) the government files an information charging the defendant
      with a misdemeanor; or
        (5) the defendant is charged with a misdemeanor and consents to
      trial before a magistrate judge.

      (b) Selecting a District. A defendant arrested in a district
    other than where the offense was allegedly committed may elect to
    have the preliminary hearing conducted in the district where the
    prosecution is pending.
      (c) Scheduling. The magistrate judge must hold the preliminary
    hearing within a reasonable time, but no later than 14 days after
    the initial appearance if the defendant is in custody and no later
    than 21 days if not in custody.
      (d) Extending the Time. With the defendant's consent and upon a
    showing of good cause - taking into account the public interest in
    the prompt disposition of criminal cases - a magistrate judge may
    extend the time limits in Rule 5.1(c) one or more times. If the
    defendant does not consent, the magistrate judge may extend the
    time limits only on a showing that extraordinary circumstances
    exist and justice requires the delay.
      (e) Hearing and Finding. At the preliminary hearing, the
    defendant may cross-examine adverse witnesses and may introduce
    evidence but may not object to evidence on the ground that it was
    unlawfully acquired. If the magistrate judge finds probable cause
    to believe an offense has been committed and the defendant
    committed it, the magistrate judge must promptly require the
    defendant to appear for further proceedings.
      (f) Discharging the Defendant. If the magistrate judge finds no
    probable cause to believe an offense has been committed or the
    defendant committed it, the magistrate judge must dismiss the
    complaint and discharge the defendant. A discharge does not
    preclude the government from later prosecuting the defendant for
    the same offense.
      (g) Recording the Proceedings. The preliminary hearing must be
    recorded by a court reporter or by a suitable recording device. A
    recording of the proceeding may be made available to any party upon
    request. A copy of the recording and a transcript may be provided
    to any party upon request and upon any payment required by
    applicable Judicial Conference regulations.
      (h) Producing a Statement.
        (1) In General. Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at any hearing
      under this rule, unless the magistrate judge for good cause rules
      otherwise in a particular case.
        (2) Sanctions for Not Producing a Statement. If a party
      disobeys a Rule 26.2 order to deliver a statement to the moving
      party, the magistrate judge must not consider the testimony of a
      witness whose statement is withheld.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 24, 1998, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Mar. 26, 2009, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972            
      Rule 5.1 is, for the most part, a clarification of old rule 5(c).
      Under the new rule, the preliminary examination must be conducted
    before a "federal magistrate" as defined in rule 54. Giving state
    or local judicial officers authority to conduct a preliminary
    examination does not seem necessary. There are not likely to be
    situations in which a "federal magistrate" is not "reasonably
    available" to conduct the preliminary examination, which is usually
    not held until several days after the initial appearance provided
    for in rule 5.
      Subdivision (a) makes clear that a finding of probable cause may
    be based on "hearsay evidence in whole or in part." The propriety
    of relying upon hearsay at the preliminary examination has been a
    matter of some uncertainty in the federal system. See C. Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 80 (1969, Supp.
    1971); 8 J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182; 504[4] (2d ed. Cipes
    1970, Supp. 1971); Washington v. Clemmer, 339 F.2d 715, 719 (D.C.
    Cir. 1964); Washington v. Clemmer, 339 F.2d 725, 728 (D.C. Cir.
    1964); Ross v. Sirica, 380 F.2d 557, 565 (D.C. Cir. 1967); Howard
    v. United States, 389 F.2d 287, 292 (D.C. Cir. 1967); Weinberg and
    Weinberg, The Congressional Invitation to Avoid the Preliminary
    Hearing: An Analysis of Section 303 of the Federal Magistrates Act
    of 1968, 67 Mich.L.Rev. 1361, especially n. 92 at 1383 (1969); D.
    Wright, The Rules of Evidence Applicable to Hearings in Probable
    Cause, 37 Conn.B.J. 561 (1963); Comment, Preliminary Examination -
    Evidence and Due Process, 15 Kan.L.Rev. 374, 379-381 (1967).
      A grand jury indictment may properly be based upon hearsay
    evidence. Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359 (1956); 8 J.
    Moore, Federal Practice &#182; 6.03[2] (2d ed. Cipes 1970, Supp.
    1971). This being so, there is practical advantage in making the
    evidentiary requirements for the preliminary examination as
    flexible as they are for the grand jury. Otherwise there will be
    increased pressure upon United States Attorneys to abandon the
    preliminary examination in favor of the grand jury indictment. See
    C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 80 at p.
    143 (1969). New York State, which also utilizes both the
    preliminary examination and the grand jury, has under consideration
    a new Code of Criminal Procedure which would allow the use of
    hearsay at the preliminary examination. See McKinney's Session Law
    News, April 10, 1969, pp. A119-A120.
      For the same reason, subdivision (a) also provides that the
    preliminary examination is not the proper place to raise the issue
    of illegally obtained evidence. This is current law. In Giordenello
    v. United States, 357 U.S. 480, 484 (1958), the Supreme Court said:

    [T]he Commissioner here had no authority to adjudicate the
    admissibility at petitioner's later trial of the heroin taken from
    his person. That issue was for the trial court. This is
    specifically recognized by Rule 41(e) of the Criminal Rules, which
    provides that a defendant aggrieved by an unlawful search and
    seizure may "* * * move the district court * * * to suppress for
    use as evidence anything so obtained on the ground that * * *" the
    arrest warrant was defective on any of several grounds.

      Dicta in Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359, 363-364 (1956),
    and United States v. Blue, 384 U.S. 251, 255 (1966), also support
    the proposed rule. In United States ex rel. Almeida v. Rundle, 383
    F.2d 421, 424 (3d Cir. 1967), the court, in considering the
    adequacy of an indictment said:

      On this score, it is settled law that (1) "[an] indictment
    returned by a legally constituted nonbiased grand jury, * * * is
    enough to call for a trial of the charge on the merits and
    satisfies the requirements of the Fifth Amendment.", Lawn v. United
    States, 355 U.S. 399, 349, 78 S.Ct. 311, 317, 2 L.Ed.2d 321 (1958);
    (2) an indictment cannot be challenged "on the ground that there
    was inadequate or incompetent evidence before the grand jury",
    Costello v. United States, 350 U.S. 359, 363, 76 S.Ct. 406, 408,
    100 L.Ed. 397 (1956); and (3) a prosecution is not abated, nor
    barred, even where "tainted evidence" has been submitted to a grand
    jury, United States v. Blue, 384 U.S. 251, 86 S.Ct. 1416, 16
    L.Ed.2d 510 (1966).

    See also C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec.
    80 at 143 n. 5 (1969, Supp. 1971) 8 J. Moore, Federal Practice
    &#182; 6.03[3] (2d ed. Cipes 1970, Supp. 1971). The Manual for
    United States Commissioners (Administrative Office of United States
    Courts, 1948) provides at pp. 24-25: "Motions for this purpose [to
    suppress illegally obtained evidence] may be made and heard only
    before a district judge. Commissioners are not empowered to
    consider or act upon such motions."
      It has been urged that the rules of evidence at the preliminary
    examination should be those applicable at the trial because the
    purpose of the preliminary examination should be, not to review the
    propriety of the arrest or prior detention, but rather to determine
    whether there is evidence sufficient to justify subjecting the
    defendant to the expense and inconvenience of trial. See Weinberg
    and Weinberg, The Congressional Invitation to Avoid the Preliminary
    Hearing: An Analysis of Section 303 of the Federal Magistrates Act
    of 1968, 67 Mich. L. Rev. 1361, 1396-1399 (1969). The rule rejects
    this view for reasons largely of administrative necessity and the
    efficient administration of justice. The Congress has decided that
    a preliminary examination shall not be required when there is a
    grand jury indictment (18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060). Increasing the
    procedural and evidentiary requirements applicable to the
    preliminary examination will therefore add to the administrative
    pressure to avoid the preliminary examination. Allowing objections
    to evidence on the ground that evidence has been illegally obtained
    would require two determinations of admissibility, one before the
    United States magistrate and one in the district court. The
    objective is to reduce, not increase, the number of preliminary
    motions.
      To provide that a probable cause finding may be based upon
    hearsay does not preclude the magistrate from requiring a showing
    that admissible evidence will be available at the time of trial.
    See Comment, Criminal Procedure - Grand Jury - Validity of
    Indictment Based Solely on Hearsay Questioned When Direct Testimony
    Is Readily Available, 43 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 578 (1968); United States
    v. Umans, 368 F.2d. 725 (2d Cir. 1966), cert. dismissed as
    improvidently granted 389 U.S. 80 (1967); United States v. Andrews,
    381 F.2d 377, 378 (2d Cir. 1967); United States v. Messina, 388
    F.2d 393, 394 n. 1 (2d Cir. 1968); and United States v. Beltram.
    388 F.2d 449 (2d Cir. 1968); and United States v. Arcuri, 282
    F.Supp. 347 (E.D.N.Y. 1968). The fact that a defendant is not
    entitled to object to evidence alleged to have been illegally
    obtained does not deprive him of an opportunity for a pretrial
    determination of the admissibility of evidence. He can raise such
    an objection prior to trial in accordance with the provisions of
    rule 12.
      Subdivision (b) makes it clear that the United States magistrate
    may not only discharge the defendant but may also dismiss the
    complaint. Current federal law authorizes the magistrate to
    discharge the defendant but he must await authorization from the
    United States Attorney before he can close his records on the case
    by dismissing the complaint. Making dismissal of the complaint a
    separate procedure accomplishes no worthwhile objective, and the
    new rule makes it clear that the magistrate can both discharge the
    defendant and file the record with the clerk.
      Subdivision (b) also deals with the legal effect of a discharge
    of a defendant at a preliminary examination. This issue is not
    dealt with explicitly in the old rule. Existing federal case law is
    limited. What cases there are seem to support the right of the
    government to issue a new complaint and start over. See e.q.,
    Collins v. Loisel, 262 U.S. 426 (1923); Morse v. United States, 267
    U.S. 80 (1925). State law is similar. See People v. Dillon, 197
    N.Y. 254, 90 N.E. 820 (1910; Tell v. Wolke, 21 Wis.2d 613, 124
    N.W.2d 655 (1963). In the Tell case the Wisconsin court stated the
    common rationale for allowing the prosecutor to issue a new
    complaint and start over:
      The state has no appeal from errors of law committed by a
    magistrate upon preliminary examination and the discharge on a
    preliminary would operate as an unchallengeable acquittal. * * *
    The only way an error of law committed on the preliminary
    examination prejudicial to the state may be challenged or corrected
    is by a preliminary examination on a second complaint. (21 Wis. 2d
    at 619-620.)
      Subdivision (c) is based upon old rule 5(c) and upon the Federal
    Magistrates Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060(f). It provides methods for
    making available to counsel the record of the preliminary
    examination. See C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure:
    Criminal Sec. 82 (1969, Supp. 1971). The new rule is designed to
    eliminate delay and expense occasioned by preparation of
    transcripts where listening to the tape recording would be
    sufficient. Ordinarily the recording should be made available
    pursuant to subdivision (c)(1). A written transcript may be
    provided under subdivision (c)(2) at the discretion of the court, a
    discretion which must be exercised in accordance with Britt v.
    North Carolina, 404 U.S. 226, 30 L.Ed.2d 400, 405 (1971):
      A defendant who claims the right to a free transcript does not,
    under our cases, bear the burden of proving inadequate such
    alternatives as may be suggested by the State or conjured up by a
    court in hindsight. In this case, however, petitioner has conceded
    that he had available an informal alternative which appears to be
    substantially equivalent to a transcript. Accordingly, we cannot
    conclude that the court below was in error in rejecting his claim.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      The addition of subdivision (d) mirrors similar amendments made
    in 1993 which extended the scope of Rule 26.2 to Rules 32, 32.1, 46
    and Rule 8 of the Rules Governing Proceedings under 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    2255. As indicated in the Committee Notes accompanying those
    amendments, the primary reason for extending the coverage of Rule
    26.2 rested heavily upon the compelling need for accurate
    information affecting a witness' credibility. That need, the
    Committee believes, extends to a preliminary examination under this
    rule where both the prosecution and the defense have high interests
    at stake.
      A witness' statement must be produced only after the witness has
    personally testified.
      Changes Made to Rule 5.1 After Publication ("GAP Report"). The
    Committee made no changes to the published draft.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 5.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic, except as noted below.
      First, the title of the rule has been changed. Although the
    underlying statute, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060, uses the phrase
    preliminary examination, the Committee believes that the phrase
    preliminary hearing is more accurate. What happens at this
    proceeding is more than just an examination; it includes an
    evidentiary hearing, argument, and a judicial ruling. Further, the
    phrase preliminary hearing predominates in actual usage.
      Rule 5.1(a) is composed of the first sentence of the second
    paragraph of current Rule 5(c). Rule 5.1(b) addresses the ability
    of a defendant to elect where a preliminary hearing will be held.
    That provision is taken from current Rule 40(a).
      Rule 5.1(c) and (d) include material currently located in Rule
    5(c): scheduling and extending the time limits for the hearing. The
    Committee is aware that in most districts, magistrate judges
    perform these functions. That point is also reflected in the
    definition of "court" in Rule 1(b), which in turn recognizes that
    magistrate judges may be authorized to act.
      Rule 5.1(d) contains a significant change in practice. The
    revised rule includes language that expands the authority of a
    United States magistrate judge to grant a continuance for a
    preliminary hearing conducted under the rule. Currently, the rule
    authorizes a magistrate judge to grant a continuance only in those
    cases in which the defendant has consented to the continuance. If
    the defendant does not consent, then the government must present
    the matter to a district judge, usually on the same day. The
    proposed amendment conflicts with 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060, which tracks
    the original language of the rule and permits only district judges
    to grant continuances when the defendant objects. The Committee
    believes that this restriction is an anomaly and that it can lead
    to needless consumption of judicial and other resources. Magistrate
    judges are routinely required to make probable cause determinations
    and other difficult decisions regarding the defendant's liberty
    interests, reflecting that the magistrate judge's role has
    developed toward a higher level of responsibility for pre-
    indictment matters. The Committee believes that the change in the
    rule will provide greater judicial economy and that it is entirely
    appropriate to seek this change to the rule through the Rules
    Enabling Act procedures. See 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2072(b). Under those
    procedures, approval by Congress of this rule change would
    supersede the parallel provisions in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060.
      Rule 5.1(e), addressing the issue of probable cause, contains the
    language currently located in Rule 5.1(a), with the exception of
    the sentence, "The finding of probable cause may be based upon
    hearsay evidence in whole or in part." That language was included
    in the original promulgation of the rule in 1972. Similar language
    was added to Rule 4 in 1974. In the Committee Note on the 1974
    amendment, the Advisory Committee explained that the language was
    included to make it clear that a finding of probable cause may be
    based upon hearsay, noting that there had been some uncertainty in
    the federal system about the propriety of relying upon hearsay at
    the preliminary hearing. See Advisory Committee Note to Rule 5.1
    (citing cases and commentary). Federal law is now clear on that
    proposition. Thus, the Committee believed that the reference to
    hearsay was no longer necessary. Further, the Committee believed
    that the matter was best addressed in Rule 1101(d)(3), Federal
    Rules of Evidence. That rule explicitly states that the Federal
    Rules of Evidence do not apply to "preliminary examinations in
    criminal cases, . . . issuance of warrants for arrest, criminal
    summonses, and search warrants." The Advisory Committee Note
    accompanying that rule recognizes that: "The nature of the
    proceedings makes application of the formal rules of evidence
    inappropriate and impracticable." The Committee did not intend to
    make any substantive changes in practice by deleting the reference
    to hearsay evidence.
      Rule 5.1(f), which deals with the discharge of a defendant,
    consists of former Rule 5.1(b).
      Rule 5.1(g) is a revised version of the material in current Rule
    5.1(c). Instead of including detailed information in the rule
    itself concerning records of preliminary hearings, the Committee
    opted simply to direct the reader to the applicable Judicial
    Conference regulations governing records. The Committee did not
    intend to make any substantive changes in the way in which those
    records are currently made available.
      Finally, although the rule speaks in terms of initial appearances
    being conducted before a magistrate judge, Rule 1(c) makes clear
    that a district judge may perform any function in these rules that
    a magistrate judge may perform.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The times set in the former rule at 10 or 20 days have been
    revised to 14 or 21 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE
      INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION

-HEAD-
      TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION  

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 6                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION

-HEAD-
    Rule 6. The Grand Jury

-STATUTE-
      (a) Summoning a Grand Jury.
        (1) In General. When the public interest so requires, the court
      must order that one or more grand juries be summoned. A grand
      jury must have 16 to 23 members, and the court must order that
      enough legally qualified persons be summoned to meet this
      requirement.
        (2) Alternate Jurors. When a grand jury is selected, the court
      may also select alternate jurors. Alternate jurors must have the
      same qualifications and be selected in the same manner as any
      other juror. Alternate jurors replace jurors in the same sequence
      in which the alternates were selected. An alternate juror who
      replaces a juror is subject to the same challenges, takes the
      same oath, and has the same authority as the other jurors.

      (b) Objection to the Grand Jury or to a Grand Juror.
        (1) Challenges. Either the government or a defendant may
      challenge the grand jury on the ground that it was not lawfully
      drawn, summoned, or selected, and may challenge an individual
      juror on the ground that the juror is not legally qualified.
        (2) Motion to Dismiss an Indictment. A party may move to
      dismiss the indictment based on an objection to the grand jury or
      on an individual juror's lack of legal qualification, unless the
      court has previously ruled on the same objection under Rule
      6(b)(1). The motion to dismiss is governed by 28 U.S.C. Sec.
      1867(e). The court must not dismiss the indictment on the ground
      that a grand juror was not legally qualified if the record shows
      that at least 12 qualified jurors concurred in the indictment.

      (c) Foreperson and Deputy Foreperson. The court will appoint one
    juror as the foreperson and another as the deputy foreperson. In
    the foreperson's absence, the deputy foreperson will act as the
    foreperson. The foreperson may administer oaths and affirmations
    and will sign all indictments. The foreperson - or another juror
    designated by the foreperson - will record the number of jurors
    concurring in every indictment and will file the record with the
    clerk, but the record may not be made public unless the court so
    orders.
      (d) Who May Be Present.
        (1) While the Grand Jury Is in Session. The following persons
      may be present while the grand jury is in session: attorneys for
      the government, the witness being questioned, interpreters when
      needed, and a court reporter or an operator of a recording
      device.
        (2) During Deliberations and Voting. No person other than the
      jurors, and any interpreter needed to assist a hearing-impaired
      or speech-impaired juror, may be present while the grand jury is
      deliberating or voting.

      (e) Recording and Disclosing the Proceedings.
        (1) Recording the Proceedings. Except while the grand jury is
      deliberating or voting, all proceedings must be recorded by a
      court reporter or by a suitable recording device. But the
      validity of a prosecution is not affected by the unintentional
      failure to make a recording. Unless the court orders otherwise,
      an attorney for the government will retain control of the
      recording, the reporter's notes, and any transcript prepared from
      those notes.
        (2) Secrecy.
          (A) No obligation of secrecy may be imposed on any person
        except in accordance with Rule 6(e)(2)(B).
          (B) Unless these rules provide otherwise, the following
        persons must not disclose a matter occurring before the grand
        jury:
            (i) a grand juror;
            (ii) an interpreter;
            (iii) a court reporter;
            (iv) an operator of a recording device;
            (v) a person who transcribes recorded testimony;
            (vi) an attorney for the government; or
            (vii) a person to whom disclosure is made under Rule
          6(e)(3)(A)(ii) or (iii).

        (3) Exceptions.
          (A) Disclosure of a grand-jury matter - other than the grand
        jury's deliberations or any grand juror's vote - may be made
        to:
            (i) an attorney for the government for use in performing
          that attorney's duty;
            (ii) any government personnel - including those of a state,
          state subdivision, Indian tribe, or foreign government - that
          an attorney for the government considers necessary to assist
          in performing that attorney's duty to enforce federal
          criminal law; or
            (iii) a person authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3322.

          (B) A person to whom information is disclosed under Rule
        6(e)(3)(A)(ii) may use that information only to assist an
        attorney for the government in performing that attorney's duty
        to enforce federal criminal law. An attorney for the government
        must promptly provide the court that impaneled the grand jury
        with the names of all persons to whom a disclosure has been
        made, and must certify that the attorney has advised those
        persons of their obligation of secrecy under this rule.
          (C) An attorney for the government may disclose any grand-
        jury matter to another federal grand jury.
          (D) An attorney for the government may disclose any grand-
        jury matter involving foreign intelligence,
        counterintelligence (as defined in 50 U.S.C. Sec. 401a), or
        foreign intelligence information (as defined in Rule
        6(e)(3)(D)(iii)) to any federal law enforcement, intelligence,
        protective, immigration, national defense, or national security
        official to assist the official receiving the information in
        the performance of that official's duties. An attorney for the
        government may also disclose any grand-jury matter involving,
        within the United States or elsewhere, a threat of attack or
        other grave hostile acts of a foreign power or its agent, a
        threat of domestic or international sabotage or terrorism, or
        clandestine intelligence gathering activities by an
        intelligence service or network of a foreign power or by its
        agent, to any appropriate federal, state, state subdivision,
        Indian tribal, or foreign government official, for the purpose
        of preventing or responding to such threat or activities.
            (i) Any official who receives information under Rule
          6(e)(3)(D) may use the information only as necessary in the
          conduct of that person's official duties subject to any
          limitations on the unauthorized disclosure of such
          information. Any state, state subdivision, Indian tribal, or
          foreign government official who receives information under
          Rule 6(e)(3)(D) may use the information only in a manner
          consistent with any guidelines issued by the Attorney General
          and the Director of National Intelligence.
            (ii) Within a reasonable time after disclosure is made
          under Rule 6(e)(3)(D), an attorney for the government must
          file, under seal, a notice with the court in the district
          where the grand jury convened stating that such information
          was disclosed and the departments, agencies, or entities to
          which the disclosure was made.
            (iii) As used in Rule 6(e)(3)(D), the term "foreign
          intelligence information" means:
              (a) information, whether or not it concerns a United
            States person, that relates to the ability of the United
            States to protect against - 
                -- actual or potential attack or other grave hostile
              acts of a foreign power or its agent;
                -- sabotage or international terrorism by a foreign
              power or its agent; or
                -- clandestine intelligence activities by an
              intelligence service or network of a foreign power or by
              its agent; or

              (b) information, whether or not it concerns a United
            States person, with respect to a foreign power or foreign
            territory that relates to - 
                -- the national defense or the security of the United
              States; or
                -- the conduct of the foreign affairs of the United
              States.

          (E) The court may authorize disclosure - at a time, in a
        manner, and subject to any other conditions that it directs -
        of a grand-jury matter:
            (i) preliminarily to or in connection with a judicial
          proceeding;
            (ii) at the request of a defendant who shows that a ground
          may exist to dismiss the indictment because of a matter that
          occurred before the grand jury;
            (iii) at the request of the government, when sought by a
          foreign court or prosecutor for use in an official criminal
          investigation;
            (iv) at the request of the government if it shows that the
          matter may disclose a violation of State, Indian tribal, or
          foreign criminal law, as long as the disclosure is to an
          appropriate state, state-subdivision, Indian tribal, or
          foreign government official for the purpose of enforcing that
          law; or
            (v) at the request of the government if it shows that the
          matter may disclose a violation of military criminal law
          under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, as long as the
          disclosure is to an appropriate military official for the
          purpose of enforcing that law.

          (F) A petition to disclose a grand-jury matter under Rule
        6(e)(3)(E)(i) must be filed in the district where the grand
        jury convened. Unless the hearing is ex parte - as it may be
        when the government is the petitioner - the petitioner must
        serve the petition on, and the court must afford a reasonable
        opportunity to appear and be heard to:
            (i) an attorney for the government;
            (ii) the parties to the judicial proceeding; and
            (iii) any other person whom the court may designate.

          (G) If the petition to disclose arises out of a judicial
        proceeding in another district, the petitioned court must
        transfer the petition to the other court unless the petitioned
        court can reasonably determine whether disclosure is proper. If
        the petitioned court decides to transfer, it must send to the
        transferee court the material sought to be disclosed, if
        feasible, and a written evaluation of the need for continued
        grand-jury secrecy. The transferee court must afford those
        persons identified in Rule 6(e)(3)(F) a reasonable opportunity
        to appear and be heard.

        (4) Sealed Indictment. The magistrate judge to whom an
      indictment is returned may direct that the indictment be kept
      secret until the defendant is in custody or has been released
      pending trial. The clerk must then seal the indictment, and no
      person may disclose the indictment's existence except as
      necessary to issue or execute a warrant or summons.
        (5) Closed Hearing. Subject to any right to an open hearing in
      a contempt proceeding, the court must close any hearing to the
      extent necessary to prevent disclosure of a matter occurring
      before a grand jury.
        (6) Sealed Records. Records, orders, and subpoenas relating to
      grand-jury proceedings must be kept under seal to the extent and
      as long as necessary to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of a
      matter occurring before a grand jury.
        (7) Contempt. A knowing violation of Rule 6, or of any
      guidelines jointly issued by the Attorney General and the
      Director of National Intelligence under Rule 6, may be punished
      as a contempt of court.

      (f) Indictment and Return. A grand jury may indict only if at
    least 12 jurors concur. The grand jury - or its foreperson or
    deputy foreperson - must return the indictment to a magistrate
    judge in open court. To avoid unnecessary cost or delay, the
    magistrate judge may take the return by video teleconference from
    the court where the grand jury sits. If a complaint or information
    is pending against the defendant and 12 jurors do not concur in the
    indictment, the foreperson must promptly and in writing report the
    lack of concurrence to the magistrate judge.
      (g) Discharging the Grand Jury. A grand jury must serve until the
    court discharges it, but it may serve more than 18 months only if
    the court, having determined that an extension is in the public
    interest, extends the grand jury's service. An extension may be
    granted for no more than 6 months, except as otherwise provided by
    statute.
      (h) Excusing a Juror. At any time, for good cause, the court may
    excuse a juror either temporarily or permanently, and if
    permanently, the court may impanel an alternate juror in place of
    the excused juror.
      (i) "Indian Tribe" Defined. "Indian tribe" means an Indian tribe
    recognized by the Secretary of the Interior on a list published in
    the Federal Register under 25 U.S.C. Sec. 479a-1.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 26 and July 8, 1976, eff. Aug. 1, 1976; Pub. L.
    95-78, Sec. 2(a), July 30, 1977, 91 Stat. 319; Apr. 30, 1979, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1979; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1, 1983; Pub. L. 98-473,
    title II, Sec. 215(f), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2016; Apr. 29, 1985,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993,
    eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 26, 1999, eff. Dec. 1, 1999; Pub. L. 107-
    56, title II, Sec. 203(a), Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 278; Apr. 29,
    2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Pub. L. 107-296, title VIII, Sec. 895,
    Nov. 25, 2002, 116 Stat. 2256; Pub. L. 108-458, title VI, Sec.
    6501(a), Dec. 17, 2004, 118 Stat. 3760; Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec. 1,
    2006; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. The first sentence of this rule vests
    in the court full discretion as to the number of grand juries to be
    summoned and as to the times when they should be convened. This
    provision supersedes the existing law, which limits the authority
    of the court to summon more than one grand jury at the same time.
    At present two grand juries may be convened simultaneously only in
    a district which has a city or borough of at least 300,000
    inhabitants, and three grand juries only in the Southern District
    of New York, 28 U.S.C. [former] 421 (Grand juries; when, how and by
    whom summoned; length of service). This statute has been construed,
    however, as only limiting the authority of the court to summon more
    than one grand jury for a single place of holding court, and as not
    circumscribing the power to convene simultaneously several grand
    juries at different points within the same district, Morris v.
    United States, 128 F.2d 912 (C.C.A. 5th); United States v.
    Perlstein, 39 F.Supp. 965 (D.N.J.).
      2. The provision that the grand jury shall consist of not less
    than 16 and not more than 23 members continues existing law, 28
    U.S.C. 419 [now 18 U.S.C. 3321] (Grand jurors; number when less
    than required number).
      3. The rule does not affect or deal with the method of summoning
    and selecting grand juries. Existing statutes on the subjects are
    not superseded. See 28 U.S.C. 411-426 [now 1861-1870]. As these
    provisions of law relate to jurors for both criminal and civil
    cases, it seemed best not to deal with this subject.
      Note to Subdivision (b)(1). Challenges to the array and to
    individual jurors, although rarely invoked in connection with the
    selection of grand juries, are nevertheless permitted in the
    Federal courts and are continued by this rule, United States v.
    Gale, 109 U.S. 65, 69-70; Clawson v. United States, 114 U.S. 477;
    Agnew v. United States, 165 U.S. 36, 44. It is not contemplated,
    however, that defendants held for action of the grand jury shall
    receive notice of the time and place of the impaneling of a grand
    jury, or that defendants in custody shall be brought to court to
    attend at the selection of the grand jury. Failure to challenge is
    not a waiver of any objection. The objection may still be
    interposed by motion under Rule 6(b)(2).
      Note to Subdivision (b)(2). 1. The motion provided by this rule
    takes the place of a plea in abatement, or motion to quash. Crowley
    v. United States, 194 U.S. 461, 469-474; United States v. Gale,
    supra.
      2. The second sentence of the rule is a restatement of 18 U.S.C.
    [former] 554(a) (Indictments and presentments; objection on ground
    of unqualified juror barred where twelve qualified jurors
    concurred; record of number concurring), and introduces no change
    in existing law.
      Note to Subdivision (c). 1. This rule generally is a restatement
    of existing law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 554(a) and 28 U.S.C. [former]
    420. Failure of the foreman to sign or endorse the indictment is an
    irregularity and is not fatal, Frisbie v. United States, 157 U.S.
    160, 163-165.
      2. The provision for the appointment of a deputy foreman is new.
    Its purpose is to facilitate the transaction of business if the
    foreman is absent. Such a provision is found in the law of at least
    one State, N.Y. Code Criminal Procedure, sec. 244.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule generally continues existing
    law. See 18 U.S.C. [former] 556 (Indictments and presentments;
    defects of form); and 5 U.S.C. 310 [now 28 U.S.C. 515(a)] (Conduct
    of legal proceedings).
      Note to Subdivision (e). 1. This rule continues the traditional
    practice of secrecy on the party of members of the grand jury,
    except when the court permits a disclosure, Schmidt v. United
    States, 115 F.2d 394 (C.C.A. 6th); United States v. American
    Medical Association, 26 F.Supp. 429 (D.C.); Cf. Atwell v. United
    States, 162 F. 97 (C.C.A. 4th); and see 18 U.S.C. [former] 554(a)
    (Indictments and presentments; objection on ground of unqualified
    juror barred where twelve qualified jurors concurred; record of
    number concurring). Government attorneys are entitled to disclosure
    of grand jury proceedings, other than the deliberations and the
    votes of the jurors, inasmuch as they may be present in the grand
    jury room during the presentation of evidence. The rule continues
    this practice.
      2. The rule does not impose any obligation of secrecy on
    witnesses. The existing practice on this point varies among the
    districts. The seal of secrecy on witnesses seems an unnecessary
    hardship and may lead to injustice if a witness is not permitted to
    make a disclosure to counsel or to an associate.
      3. The last sentence authorizing the court to seal indictments
    continues present practice.
      Note to Subdivision (f). This rule continues existing law, 18
    U.S.C. [former] 554 (Indictments and presentments; by twelve grand
    jurors). The purpose of the last sentence is to provide means for a
    prompt release of a defendant if in custody, or exoneration of bail
    if he is on bail, in the event that the grand jury considers the
    case of a defendant held for its action and finds no indictment.
      Note to Subdivision (g). Under existing law a grand jury serves
    only during the term for which it is summoned, but the court may
    extend its period of service for as long as 18 months, 28 U.S.C.
    [former] 421. During the extended period, however, a grand jury may
    conduct only investigations commenced during the original term. The
    rule continues the 18 months' maximum for the period of service of
    a grand jury, but provides for such service as a matter of course,
    unless the court terminates it at an earlier date. The matter is
    left in the discretion of the court, as it is under existing law.
    The expiration of a term of court as a time limitation is elsewhere
    entirely eliminated (Rule 45(c)) and specific time limitations are
    substituted therefor. This was previously done by the Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure for the civil side of the courts (Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure, Rule 6(c) [28 U.S.C., Appendix]). The
    elimination of the requirement that at an extended period the grand
    jury may continue only investigations previously commenced, will
    obviate such a controversy as was presented in United States v.
    Johnson, 319 U.S. 503.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (d). - The amendment makes it clear that recording
    devices may be used to take evidence at grand jury sessions.
      Subdivision (e). - The amendment makes it clear that the operator
    of a recording device and a typist who transcribes recorded
    testimony are bound to the obligation of secrecy.
      Subdivision (f). - A minor change conforms the language to what
    doubtless is the practice. The need for a report to the court that
    no indictment has been found may be present even though the
    defendant has not been "held to answer." If the defendant is in
    custody or has given bail, some official record should be made of
    the grand jury action so that the defendant can be released or his
    bail exonerated.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (b)(2) is amended to incorporate by express reference
    the provisions of the Jury Selection and Service Act of 1968. That
    act provides in part:
      The procedures prescribed by this section shall be the exclusive
    means by which a person accused of a Federal crime [or] the
    Attorney General of the United States * * * may challenge any jury
    on the ground that such jury was not selected in conformity with
    the provisions of this title. [28 U.S.C. Sec. 1867(c)]
      Under rule 12(e) the judge shall decide the motion before trial
    or order it deferred until after verdict. The authority which the
    judge has to delay his ruling until after verdict gives him an
    option which can be exercised to prevent the unnecessary delay of a
    trial in the event that a motion attacking a grand jury is made on
    the eve of the trial. In addition, rule 12(c) gives the judge
    authority to fix the time at which pretrial motions must be made.
    Failure to make a pretrial motion at the appropriate time may
    constitute a waiver under rule 12(f).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1976 AMENDMENT       
      Under the proposed amendment to rule 6(f), an indictment may be
    returned to a federal magistrate. ("Federal magistrate" is defined
    in rule 54(c) as including a United States magistrate as defined in
    28 U.S.C. Secs. 631-639 and a judge of the United States.) This
    change will foreclose the possibility of noncompliance with the
    Speedy Trial Act timetable because of the nonavailability of a
    judge. Upon the effective date of certain provisions of the Speedy
    Trial Act of 1974, the timely return of indictments will become a
    matter of critical importance; for the year commencing July 1,
    1976, indictments must be returned within 60 days of arrest or
    summons, for the year following within 45 days, and thereafter
    within 30 days. 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3161(b) and (f), 3163(a). The
    problem is acute in a one-judge district where, if the judge is
    holding court in another part of the district, or is otherwise
    absent, the return of the indictment must await the later
    reappearance of the judge at the place where the grand jury is
    sitting.
      A corresponding change has been made to that part of subdivision
    (f) which concerns the reporting of a "no bill," and to that part
    of subdivision (e) which concerns keeping an indictment secret.
      The change in the third sentence of rule 6(f) is made so as to
    cover all situations in which by virtue of a pending complaint or
    information the defendant is in custody or released under some form
    of conditional release.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1977 AMENDMENT       
      The proposed definition of "attorneys for the government" in
    subdivision (e) is designed to facilitate an increasing need, on
    the part of government attorneys, to make use of outside expertise
    in complex litigation. The phrase "other government personnel"
    includes, but is not limited to, employees of administrative
    agencies and government departments.
      Present subdivision (e) provides for disclosure "to the attorneys
    for the government for use in the performance of their duties."
    This limitation is designed to further "the long established policy
    that maintains the secrecy of the grand jury in federal courts."
    United States v. Procter and Gamble Co., 356 U.S. 677 (1958).
      As defined in rule 54(c), " 'Attorney for the government' means
    the Attorney General, an authorized assistant of the Attorney
    General, a United States Attorney, an authorized assistant of a
    United States Attorney and when applicable to cases arising under
    the laws of Guam * * *." The limited nature of this definition is
    pointed out in In re Grand Jury Proceedings, 309 F.2d 440 (3d Cir.
    1962) at 443:
        The term attorneys for the government is restrictive in its
      application. * * * If it had been intended that the attorneys for
      the administrative agencies were to have free access to matters
      occurring before a grand jury, the rule would have so provided.
      The proposed amendment reflects the fact that there is often
    government personnel assisting the Justice Department in grand jury
    proceedings. In In re Grand Jury Investigation of William H.
    Pflaumer & Sons, Inc., 53 F.R.D. 464 (E.D.Pa. 1971), the opinion
    quoted the United States Attorney:
        It is absolutely necessary in grand jury investigations
      involving analysis of books and records, for the government
      attorneys to rely upon investigative personnel (from the
      government agencies) for assistance.
    See also 8 J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182; 6.05 at 6-28 (2d ed.
    Cipes, 1969):
        The rule [6(e)] has presented a problem, however, with respect
      to attorneys and nonattorneys who are assisting in preparation of
      a case for the grand jury. * * * These assistants often cannot
      properly perform their work without having access to grand jury
      minutes.
      Although case law is limited, the trend seems to be in the
    direction of allowing disclosure to government personnel who assist
    attorneys for the government in situations where their expertise is
    required. This is subject to the qualification that the matters
    disclosed be used only for the purposes of the grand jury
    investigation. The court may inquire as to the good faith of the
    assisting personnel, to ensure that access to material is not
    merely a subterfuge to gather evidence unattainable by means other
    than the grand jury. This approach was taken in In re Grand Jury
    Investigation of William H. Pflaumer & Sons, Inc., 53 F.R.D. 464
    (E.D.Pa. 1971); In re April 1956 Term Grand Jury, 239 F.2d 263 (7th
    Cir. 1956); United States v. Anzelimo, 319 F.Supp. 1106 (D.C.La.
    1970). Another case, Application of Kelly, 19 F.R.D. 269 (S.D.N.Y.
    1956), assumed, without deciding, that assistance given the
    attorney for the government by IRS and FBI agents was authorized.
      The change at line 27 reflects the fact that under the Bail
    Reform Act of 1966 some persons will be released without requiring
    bail. See 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3146, 3148.
      Under the proposed amendment to rule 6(f), an indictment may be
    returned to a federal magistrate. ("Federal magistrate" is defined
    in rule 54(c) as including a United States magistrate as defined in
    28 U.S.C. Sec. 631-639 and a judge of the United States.) This
    change will foreclose the possibility of noncompliance with the
    Speedy Trial Act timetable because of the nonavailability of a
    judge. Upon the effective date of certain provisions of the Speedy
    Trial Act of 1974, the timely return of indictments will become a
    matter of critical importance; for the year commencing July 1,
    1976, indictments must be returned within 60 days of arrest or
    summons, for the year following within 45 days, and thereafter
    within 30 days. 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3161(b) and (f), 3163(a). The
    problem is acute in a one-judge district where, if the judge is
    holding court in another part of the district, or is otherwise
    absent, the return of the indictment must await the later
    reappearance of the judge at the place where the grand jury is
    sitting.
      A corresponding change has been made to that part of subdivision
    (f) which concerns the reporting of a "no bill," and to that part
    of subdivision (e) which concerns keeping an indictment secret.
      The change in the third sentence of rule 6(f) is made so as to
    cover all situations in which by virtue of a pending complaint or
    information the defendant is in custody or released under some form
    of conditional release.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, SENATE REPORT NO. 95-354; 1977
                 AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY THE SUPREME COURT
      Rule 6(e) currently provides that "disclosure of matters
    occurring before the grand jury other than its deliberations and
    the vote of any juror may be made to the attorneys for the
    government for use in the performance of their duties." Rule 54(c)
    defines attorneys for the government to mean "the Attorney General,
    an authorized assistant to the Attorney General, a United States
    attorney, and an authorized assistant of the United States
    attorney, and when applicable to cases arising under the laws of
    Guam, means the Attorney General of Guam. . . ."
      The Supreme Court proposal would change Rule 6(e) by adding the
    following new language:
        For purposes of this subdivision, "attorneys for the
      government" includes those enumerated in Rule 54(c); it also
      includes such other government personnel as are necessary to
      assist the attorneys for the government in the performance of
      their duties.
    It would also make a series of changes in the rule designed to make
    its provisions consistent with other provisions in the Rules and
    the Bail Reform Act of 1966.
      The Advisory Committee note states that the proposed amendment is
    intended "to facilitate an increasing need, on the part of
    Government attorneys to make use of outside expertise in complex
    litigation". The note indicated that:
        Although case law is limited, the trend seems to be in the
      direction of allowing disclosure to Government personnel who
      assist attorneys for the Government in situations where their
      expertise is required. This is subject to the qualification that
      the matter disclosed be used only for the purposes of the grand
      jury investigation.
      It is past history at this point that the Supreme Court proposal
    attracted substantial criticism, which seemed to stem more from the
    lack of precision in defining, and consequent confusion and
    uncertainty concerning, the intended scope of the proposed change
    than from a fundamental disagreement with the objective.
      Attorneys for the Government in the performance of their duties
    with a grand jury must possess the authority to utilize the
    services of other government employees. Federal crimes are
    "investigated" by the FBI, the IRS, or by Treasury agents and not
    by government prosecutors or the citizens who sit on grand juries.
    Federal agents gather and present information relating to criminal
    behavior to prosecutors who analyze and evaluate it and present it
    to grand juries. Often the prosecutors need the assistance of the
    agents in evaluating evidence. Also, if further investigation is
    required during or after grand jury proceedings, or even during the
    course of criminal trials, the Federal agents must do it. There is
    no reason for a barrier of secrecy to exist between the facets of
    the criminal justice system upon which we all depend to enforce the
    criminal laws.
      The parameters of the authority of an attorney for the government
    to disclose grand jury information in the course of performing his
    own duties is not defined by Rule 6. However, a commonsense
    interpretation prevails, permitting "Representatives of other
    government agencies actively assisting United States attorneys in a
    grand jury investigation . . . access to grand jury material in the
    performance of their duties." Yet projected against this current
    practice, and the weight of case law, is the anomalous language of
    Rule 6(e) itself, which, in its present state of uncertainty, is
    spawning some judicial decisions highly restrictive of the use of
    government experts that require the government to "show the
    necessity (to the Court) for each particular person's aid rather
    than showing merely a general necessity for assistance, expert or
    otherwise" and that make Rule 6(e) orders subject to interlocutory
    appeal.
      In this state of uncertainty, the Committee believes it is timely
    to redraft subdivision (e) of Rule 6 to make it clear.
      Paragraph (1) as proposed by the Committee states the general
    rule that a grand jury, an interpreter, a stenographer, an operator
    of a recording device, a typist who transcribes recorded testimony,
    an attorney for the government, or government personnel to whom
    disclosure is made under paragraph (2)(A)(ii) shall not disclose
    matters occurring before the grand jury, except as otherwise
    provided in these rules. It also expressly provides that a knowing
    violation of Rule 6 may be punished as a contempt of court. In
    addition, it carries forward the current provision that no
    obligation of secrecy may be imposed on any person except in
    accordance with this Rule.
      Having stated the general rule of nondisclosure, paragraph (2)
    sets forth exemptions from nondisclosure. Subparagraph (A) of
    paragraph (2) provides that disclosure otherwise prohibited, other
    than the grand jury deliberations and the vote of any grand juror,
    may be made to an attorney for the government for use in the
    performance of his duty and to such personnel as are deemed
    necessary by an attorney for the government to assist an attorney
    for the government in the performance of such attorney's duty to
    enforce Federal criminal law. In order to facilitate resolution of
    subsequent claims of improper disclosure, subparagraph (B) further
    provides that the names of government personnel designated to
    assist the attorney for the government shall be promptly provided
    to the district court and such personnel shall not utilize grand
    jury material for any purpose other than assisting the attorney for
    the government in the performance of such attorney's duty to
    enforce Federal criminal law. Although not expressly required by
    the rule, the Committee contemplates that the names of such
    personnel will generally be furnished to the court before
    disclosure is made to them. Subparagraph (C) permits disclosure as
    directed by a court preliminarily to or in connection with a
    judicial proceeding or, at the request of the defendant, upon a
    showing that grounds may exist for dismissing the indictment
    because of matters occurring before the grand jury. Paragraph (3)
    carries forward the last sentence of current Rule 6(e) with the
    technical changes recommended by the Supreme Court.
      The Rule as redrafted is designed to accommodate the belief on
    the one hand that Federal prosecutors should be able, without the
    time-consuming requirement of prior judicial interposition, to make
    such disclosures of grand jury information to other government
    personnel as they deem necessary to facilitate the performance of
    their duties relating to criminal law enforcement. On the other
    hand, the Rule seeks to allay the concerns of those who fear that
    such prosecutorial power will lead to misuse of the grand jury to
    enforce non-criminal Federal laws by (1) providing a clear
    prohibition, subject to the penalty of contempt and (2) requiring
    that a court order under paragraph (C) be obtained to authorize
    such a disclosure. There is, however, no intent to preclude the use
    of grand jury-developed evidence for civil law enforcement
    purposes. On the contrary, there is no reason why such use is
    improper, assuming that the grand jury was utilized for the
    legitimate purpose of a criminal investigation. Accordingly, the
    Committee believes and intends that the basis for a court's refusal
    to issue an order under paragraph (C) to enable the government to
    disclose grand jury information in a non-criminal proceeding should
    be no more restrictive than is the case today under prevailing
    court decisions. It is contemplated that the judicial hearing in
    connection with an application for a court order by the government
    under subparagraph (3)(C)(i) should be ex parte so as to preserve,
    to the maximum extent possible, grand jury secrecy.

           CONGRESSIONAL MODIFICATION OF PROPOSED 1977 AMENDMENT       
      Section 2(a) of Pub. L. 95-78 provided in part that the amendment
    proposed by the Supreme Court [in its order of Apr. 26, 1977] to
    subdivision (e) of rule 6 of the Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure [subd. (e) of this rule] is approved in a modified form.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (e)(1). Proposed subdivision (e)(1) requires
    that all proceedings, except when the grand jury is deliberating or
    voting, be recorded. The existing rule does not require that grand
    jury proceedings be recorded. The provision in rule 6(d) that "a
    stenographer or operator of a recording device may be present while
    the grand jury is in session" has been taken to mean that
    recordation is permissive and not mandatory; see United States v.
    Aloisio, 440 F.2d 705 (7th Cir. 1971), collecting the cases.
    However, the cases rather frequently state that recordation of the
    proceedings is the better practice; see United States v. Aloisio,
    supra; United States v. Cramer, 447 F.2d 210 (2d Cir. 1971),
    Schlinsky v. United States, 379 F.2d 735 (1st Cir. 1967); and some
    cases require the district court, after a demand to exercise
    discretion as to whether the proceedings should be recorded. United
    States v. Price, 474 F.2d 1223 (9th Cir. 1973); United States v.
    Thoresen, 428 F.2d 654 (9th Cir. 1970). Some district courts have
    adopted a recording requirement. See e.g. United States v. Aloisio,
    supra; United States v. Gramolini, 301 F.Supp. 39 (D.R.I. 1969).
    Recording of grand jury proceedings is currently a requirement in a
    number of states. See, e.g., Cal.Pen.Code Secs. 938-938.3; Iowa
    Code Ann. Sec. 772.4; Ky.Rev.Stat.Ann. Sec. 28.460; and
    Ky.R.Crim.P. Sec. 5.16(2).
      The assumption underlying the proposal is that the cost of such
    recording is justified by the contribution made to the improved
    administration of criminal justice. See United States v. Gramolini,
    supra, noting: "Nor can it be claimed that the cost of recordation
    is prohibitive; in an electronic age, the cost of recordation must
    be categorized as miniscule." For a discussion of the success of
    electronic recording in Alaska, see Reynolds, Alaska's Ten Years of
    Electronic Reporting, 56 A.B.A.J. 1080 (1970).
      Among the benefits to be derived from a recordation requirement
    are the following:
      (1) Ensuring that the defendant may impeach a prosecution witness
    on the basis of his prior inconsistent statements before the grand
    jury. As noted in the opinion of Oakes, J., in United States v.
    Cramer: "First since Dennis v. United States, 384 U.S. 855, 86
    S.Ct. 1840, 16 L.Ed.2d 973 (1966), a defendant has been entitled to
    examine the grand jury testimony of witnesses against him. On this
    point, the Court was unanimous, holding that there was 'no
    justification' for the District of Columbia Court of Appeals'
    'relying upon [the] "assumption" ' that 'no inconsistencies would
    have come to light.' The Court's decision was based on the general
    proposition that '[i]n our adversary system for determining guilt
    or innocence, it is rarely justifiable for the prosecution to have
    exclusive access to a storehouse of relevant facts.' In the case at
    bar the prosecution did have exclusive access to the grand jury
    testimony of the witness Sager, by virtue of being present, and the
    defense had none - to determine whether there were any
    inconsistencies with, say, his subsequent testimony as to damaging
    admissions by the defendant and his attorney Richard Thaler. The
    Government claims, and it is supported by the majority here, that
    there is no problem since defendants were given the benefit of
    Sager's subsequent statements including these admissions as Jencks
    Act materials. But assuming this to be true, it does not cure the
    basic infirmity that the defense could not know whether the witness
    testified inconsistently before the grand jury."
      (2) Ensuring that the testimony received by the grand jury is
    trustworthy. In United States v. Cramer, Oakes, J., also observed:
    "The recording of testimony is in a very real sense a
    circumstantial guaranty of trustworthiness. Without the restraint
    of being subject to prosecution for perjury, a restraint which is
    wholly meaningless or nonexistent if the testimony is unrecorded, a
    witness may make baseless accusations founded on hearsay or false
    accusations, all resulting in the indictment of a fellow citizen
    for a crime."
      (3) Restraining prosecutorial abuses before the grand jury. As
    noted in United States v. Gramolini: "In no way does recordation
    inhibit the grand jury's investigation. True, recordation restrains
    certain prosecutorial practices which might, in its absence be
    used, but that is no reason not to record. Indeed, a sophisticated
    prosecutor must acknowledge that there develops between a grand
    jury and the prosecutor with whom the jury is closeted a rapport -
    a dependency relationship - which can easily be turned into an
    instrument of influence on grand jury deliberations. Recordation is
    the most effective restraint upon such potential abuses."
      (4) Supporting the case made by the prosecution at trial. Oakes,
    J., observed in United States v. Cramer: "The benefits of having
    grand jury testimony recorded do not all inure to the defense. See,
    e.g., United States v. DeSisto, 329 F.2d 929, 934: (2nd Cir.),
    cert. denied, 377 U.S. 979, 84 S.Ct. 1885, 12 L.Ed.2d 747 (1964)
    (conviction sustained in part on basis of witnesses's prior sworn
    testimony before grand jury)." Fed.R.Evid. 801(d)(1)(A) excludes
    from the category of hearsay the prior inconsistent testimony of a
    witness given before a grand jury. United States v. Morgan, 555
    F.2d 238 (9th Cir. 1977). See also United States v. Carlson, 547
    F.2d 1346 (8th Cir. 1976), admitting under Fed.R.Evid. 804(b)(5)
    the grand jury testimony of a witness who refused to testify at
    trial because of threats by the defendant.
      Commentators have also supported a recording requirement. 8
    Moore, Federal Practice par. 6.02[2][d] (2d ed. 1972) states:
    "Fairness to the defendant would seem to compel a change in the
    practice, particularly in view of the 1970 amendment to 18 USC Sec.
    3500 making grand jury testimony of government witnesses available
    at trial for purposes of impeachment. The requirement of a record
    may also prove salutary in controlling overreaching or improper
    examination of witnesses by the prosecutor." Similarly, 1 Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure - Criminal Sec. 103 (1969), states
    that the present rule "ought to be changed, either by amendment or
    by judicial construction. The Supreme Court has emphasized the
    importance to the defense of access to the transcript of the grand
    jury proceedings [citing Dennis]. A defendant cannot have that
    advantage if the proceedings go unrecorded." American Bar
    Association, Report of the Special Committee on Federal Rules of
    Procedure, 52 F.R.D. 87, 94-95 (1971), renews the committee's 1965
    recommendation "that all accusatorial grand jury proceedings either
    be transcribed by a reporter or recorded by electronic means."
      Under proposed subdivision (e)(1), if the failure to record is
    unintentional, the failure to record would not invalidate
    subsequent judicial proceedings. Under present law, the failure to
    compel production of grand jury testimony where there is no record
    is not reversible error. See Wyatt v. United States, 388 F.2d 395
    (10th Cir. 1968).
      The provision that the recording or reporter's notes or any
    transcript prepared therefrom are to remain in the custody or
    control (as where the notes are in the immediate possession of a
    contract reporter employed by the Department of Justice) of the
    attorney for the government is in accord with present practice. It
    is specifically recognized, however, that the court in a particular
    case may have reason to order otherwise.
      It must be emphasized that the proposed changes in rule 6(e) deal
    only with the recording requirement, and in no way expand the
    circumstances in which disclosure of the grand jury proceedings is
    permitted or required. "Secrecy of grand jury proceedings is not
    jeopardized by recordation. The making of a record cannot be
    equated with disclosure of its contents, and disclosure is
    controlled by other means." United States v. Price, 474 F.2d 1223
    (9th Cir. 1973). Specifically, the proposed changes do not provide
    for copies of the grand jury minutes to defendants as a matter of
    right, as is the case in some states. See, e.g., Cal.Pen.Code Sec.
    938.1; Iowa Code Ann. Sec. 772.4. The matter of disclosure
    continues to be governed by other provisions, such as rule 16(a)
    (recorded statements of the defendant), 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500
    (statements of government witnesses), and the unchanged portions of
    rule 6(e), and the cases interpreting these provisions. See e.g.,
    United States v. Howard, 433 F.2d 1 (5th Cir. 1970), and Beatrice
    Foods Co. v. United States, 312 F.2d 29 (8th Cir. 1963), concerning
    the showing which must be made of improper matters occurring before
    the grand jury before disclosure is required.
      Likewise, the proposed changes in rule 6(e) are not intended to
    make any change regarding whether a defendant may challenge a grand
    jury indictment. The Supreme Court has declined to hold that
    defendants may challenge indictments on the ground that they are
    not supported by sufficient or competent evidence. Costello v.
    United States, 350 U.S. 359 (1956); Lawn v. United States, 355 U.S.
    339 (1958); United States v. Blue, 384 U.S. 251 (1966). Nor are the
    changes intended to permit the defendant to challenge the conduct
    of the attorney for the government before the grand jury absent a
    preliminary factual showing of serious misconduct.
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(C). The sentence added to subdivision
    (e)(3)(C) gives express recognition to the fact that if the court
    orders disclosure, it may determine the circumstances of the
    disclosure. For example, if the proceedings are electronically
    recorded, the court would have discretion in an appropriate case to
    deny defendant the right to a transcript at government expense.
    While it takes special skills to make a stenographic record
    understandable, an electronic recording can be understood by merely
    listening to it, thus avoiding the expense of transcription.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(C). New subdivision (e)(3)(C)(iii)
    recognizes that it is permissible for the attorney for the
    government to make disclosure of matters occurring before one grand
    jury to another federal grand jury. Even absent a specific
    provision to that effect, the courts have permitted such disclosure
    in some circumstances. See, e.g., United States v. Socony-Vacuum
    Oil Co. 310 U.S. 150 (1940); United States v. Garcia, 420 F.2d 309
    (2d Cir. 1970). In this kind of situation, "[s]ecrecy of grand jury
    materials should be protected almost as well by the safeguards at
    the second grand jury proceeding, including the oath of the jurors,
    as by judicial supervision of the disclosure of such materials."
    United States v. Malatesta, 583 F.2d 748 (5th Cir. 1978).
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(D). In Douglas Oil Co. v. Petrol Stops
    Northwest, 441 U.S. 211 (1979), the Court held on the facts there
    presented that it was an abuse of discretion for the district judge
    to order disclosure of grand jury transcripts for use in civil
    proceedings in another district where that judge had insufficient
    knowledge of those proceedings to make a determination of the need
    for disclosure. The Court suggested a "better practice" on those
    facts, but declared that "procedures to deal with the many
    variations are best left to the rulemaking procedures established
    by Congress."
      The first sentence of subdivision (e)(3)(D) makes it clear that
    when disclosure is sought under subdivision (e)(2)(C)(i), the
    petition is to be filed in the district where the grand jury was
    convened, whether or not it is the district of the "judicial
    proceeding" giving rise to the petition. Courts which have
    addressed the question have generally taken this view, e.g.,
    Illinois v. Sarbaugh, 522 F.2d 768 (7th Cir. 1977). As stated in
    Douglas Oil,
      those who seek grand jury transcripts have little choice other
      than to file a request with the court that supervised the grand
      jury, as it is the only court with control over the transcripts.
      Quite apart from the practical necessity, the policies underlying
    Rule 6(e) dictate that the grand jury's supervisory court
    participate in reviewing such requests, as it is in the best
    position to determine the continuing need for grand jury secrecy.
    Ideally, the judge who supervised the grand jury should review the
    request for disclosure, as he will have firsthand knowledge of the
    grand jury's activities. But even other judges of the district
    where the grand jury sat may be able to discover facts affecting
    the need for secrecy more easily than would judges from elsewhere
    around the country. The records are in the custody of the District
    Court, and therefore are readily available for references.
    Moreover, the personnel of that court - particularly those of the
    United States Attorney's Office who worked with the grand jury -
    are more likely to be informed about the grand jury proceedings
    than those in a district that had no prior experience with the
    subject of the request.
      The second sentence requires the petitioner to serve notice of
    his petition upon several persons who, by the third sentence, are
    recognized as entitled to appear and be heard on the matter. The
    notice requirement ensures that all interested parties, if they
    wish, may make a timely appearance. Absent such notice, these
    persons, who then might only learn of the order made in response to
    the motion after it was entered, have had to resort to the
    cumbersome and inefficient procedure of a motion to vacate the
    order. In re Special February 1971 Grand Jury v. Conlisk, 490 F.2d
    894 (7th Cir. 1973).
      Though some authority is to be found that parties to the judicial
    proceeding giving rise to the motion are not entitled to intervene,
    in that "the order to produce was not directed to" them, United
    States v. American Oil Co., 456 F.2d 1043 (3d Cir. 1972), that
    position was rejected in Douglas Oil, where it was noted that such
    persons have standing "to object to the disclosure order, as
    release of the transcripts to their civil adversaries could result
    in substantial injury to them." As noted in Illinois v. Sarbaugh,
    supra, while present rule 6(e) "omits to state whether any one is
    entitled to object to disclosure," the rule
      seems to contemplate a proceeding of some kind, judicial
      proceedings are not normally ex parte, and persons in the
      situation of the intervenors [parties to the civil proceeding]
      are likely to be the only ones to object to an order for
      disclosure. If they are not allowed to appear, the advantages of
      an adversary proceeding are lost.
    If the judicial proceeding is a class action, notice to the
    representative is sufficient.
      The amendment also recognizes that the attorney for the
    government in the district where the grand jury convened also has
    an interest in the matter and should be allowed to be heard. It may
    sometimes be the case, as in Douglas Oil, that the prosecutor will
    have relatively little concern for secrecy, at least as compared
    with certain parties to the civil proceeding. Nonetheless, it is
    appropriate to recognize that generally the attorney for the
    government is entitled to be heard so that he may represent what
    Douglas Oil characterizes as "the public interest in secrecy,"
    including the government's legitimate concern about "the possible
    effect upon the functioning of future grand juries" of unduly
    liberal disclosure.
      The second sentence leaves it to the court to decide whether any
    other persons should receive notice and be allowed to intervene.
    This is appropriate, for the necessity for and feasibility of
    involving others may vary substantially from case to case. In
    Douglas Oil, it was noted that the individual who produced before
    the grand jury the information now sought has an interest in the
    matter:
      Fear of future retribution or social stigma may act as powerful
      deterrents to those who would come forward and aid the grand jury
      in the performance of its duties. Concern as to the future
      consequences of frank and full testimony is heightened where the
      witness is an employee of a company under investigation.
    Notice to such persons, however is by no means inevitably
    necessary, and in some cases the information sought may have
    reached the grand jury from such a variety of sources that it is
    not practicable to involve these sources in the disclosure
    proceeding. Similarly, while Douglas Oil notes that rule 6(e)
    secrecy affords "protection of the innocent accused from disclosure
    of the accusation made against him before the grand jury," it is
    appropriate to leave to the court whether that interest requires
    representation directly by the grand jury target at this time. When
    deemed necessary to protect the identity of such other persons, it
    would be a permissible alternative for the government or the court
    directly to give notice to these other persons, and thus the rule
    does not foreclose such action.
      The notice requirement in the second sentence is inapplicable if
    the hearing is to be ex parte. The legislative history of rule 6(e)
    states: "It is contemplated that the judicial hearing in connection
    with an application for a court order by the government, under
    subparagraph (3)(C)(i) should be ex parte so as to preserve, to the
    maximum extent possible, grand jury secrecy." S.Rep. No. 95-354,
    1977 U.S. Code Cong. & Admin. News p. 532. Although such cases are
    distinguishable from other cases arising under this subdivision
    because internal regulations limit further disclosure of
    information disclosed to the government, the rule provides only
    that the hearing "may" be ex parte when the petitioner is the
    government. This allows the court to decide that matter based upon
    the circumstances of the particular case. For example, an ex parte
    proceeding is much less likely to be appropriate if the government
    acts as petitioner as an accommodation to, e.g., a state agency.
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(E). Under the first sentence in new
    subdivision (e)(3)(E), the petitioner or any intervenor might seek
    to have the matter transferred to the federal district court where
    the judicial proceeding giving rise to the petition is pending.
    Usually, it will be the petitioner, who is seeking disclosure, who
    will desire the transfer, but this is not inevitably the case. An
    intervenor might seek transfer on the ground that the other court,
    with greater knowledge of the extent of the need, would be less
    likely to conclude "that the material * * * is needed to avoid a
    possible injustice" (the test under Douglas Oil). The court may
    transfer on its own motion, for as noted in Douglas Oil, if
    transfer is the better course of action it should not be foreclosed
    "merely because the parties have failed to specify the relief to
    which they are entitled."
      It must be emphasized that transfer is proper only if the
    proceeding giving rise to the petition "is in federal district
    court in another district." If, for example, the proceeding is
    located in another district but is at the state level, a situation
    encompassed within rule 6(e)(3)(C)(i), In re Special February 1971
    Grand Jury v. Conlisk, supra, there is no occasion to transfer.
    Ultimate resolution of the matter cannot be placed in the hands of
    the state court, and in such a case the federal court in that place
    would lack what Douglas Oil recognizes as the benefit to be derived
    from transfer: "first-hand knowledge of the litigation in which the
    transcripts allegedly are needed." Formal transfer is unnecessary
    in intradistrict cases, even when the grand jury court and judicial
    proceeding court are not in the same division.
      As stated in the first sentence, transfer by the court is
    appropriate "unless it can reasonably obtain sufficient knowledge
    of the proceeding to determine whether disclosure is proper." (As
    reflected by the "whether disclosure is proper" language, the
    amendment makes no effort to define the disclosure standard; that
    matter is currently governed by Douglas Oil and the authorities
    cited therein, and is best left to elaboration by future case law.)
    The amendment expresses a preference for having the disclosure
    issue decided by the grand jury court. Yet, it must be recognized,
    as stated in Douglas Oil, that often this will not be possible
    because
      the judges of the court having custody of the grand jury
      transcripts will have no first-hand knowledge of the litigation
      in which the transcripts allegedly are needed, and no practical
      means by which such knowledge can be obtained. In such a case, a
      judge in the district of the grand jury cannot weigh in an
      informed manner the need for disclosure against the need for
      maintaining grand jury secrecy.
      The penultimate sentence provides that upon transfer the
    transferring court shall order transmitted the material sought to
    be disclosed and also a written evaluation of the need for
    continuing grand jury secrecy. Because the transferring court is in
    the best position to assess the interest in continued grand jury
    secrecy in the particular instance, it is important that the court
    which will now have to balance that interest against the need for
    disclosure receive the benefit of the transferring court's
    assessment. Transmittal of the material sought to be disclosed will
    not only facilitate timely disclosure if it is thereafter ordered,
    but will also assist the other court in deciding how great the need
    for disclosure actually is. For example, with that material at hand
    the other court will be able to determine if there is any
    inconsistency between certain grand jury testimony and testimony
    received in the other judicial proceeding. The rule recognizes,
    however, that there may be instances in which transfer of
    everything sought to be disclosed is not feasible. See, e.g., In re
    1975-2 Grand Jury Investigation, 566 F.2d 1293 (5th Cir. 1978)
    (court ordered transmittal of "an inventory of the grand jury
    subpoenas, transcripts, and documents," as the materials in
    question were "exceedingly voluminous, filling no less than 55
    large file boxes and one metal filing cabinet").
      The last sentence makes it clear that in a case in which the
    matter is transferred to another court, that court should permit
    the various interested parties specified in the rule to be heard.
    Even if those persons were previously heard before the court which
    ordered the transfer, this will not suffice. The order of transfer
    did not decide the ultimate issue of "whether a particularized need
    for disclosure outweighs the interest in continued grand jury
    secrecy," Douglas Oil, supra, which is what now remains to be
    resolved by the court to which transfer was made. Cf. In re 1975-2
    Grand Jury Investigation, supra, holding that a transfer order is
    not appealable because it does not determine the ultimate question
    of disclosure, and thus "[n]o one has yet been aggrieved and no one
    will become aggrieved until [the court to which the matter was
    transferred] acts."
      Note to Subdivision (e)(5). This addition to rule 6 would make it
    clear that certain hearings which would reveal matters which have
    previously occurred before a grand jury or are likely to occur
    before a grand jury with respect to a pending or ongoing
    investigation must be conducted in camera in whole or in part in
    order to prevent public disclosure of such secret information. One
    such hearing is that conducted under subdivision (e)(3)(D), for it
    will at least sometimes be necessary to consider and assess some of
    the "matters occurring before the grand jury" in order to decide
    the disclosure issue. Two other kinds of hearings at which
    information about a particular grand jury investigation might need
    to be discussed are those at which the question is whether to grant
    a grand jury witness immunity or whether to order a grand jury
    witness to comply fully with the terms of a subpoena directed to
    him.
      A recent GAO study established that there is considerable variety
    in the practice as to whether such hearings are closed or open, and
    that open hearings often seriously jeopardize grand jury secrecy:
        For judges to decide these matters, the witness' relationship
      to the case under investigation must be discussed. Accordingly,
      the identities of witnesses and targets, the nature of expected
      testimony, and the extent to which the witness is cooperating are
      often revealed during preindictment proceedings. Because the
      matters discussed can compromise the purposes of grand jury
      secrecy, some judges close the preindictment proceedings to the
      public and the press; others do not. When the proceeding is open,
      information that may otherwise be kept secret under rule 6(e)
      becomes available to the public and the press . . . .
        Open preindictment proceedings are a major source of
      information which can compromise the purposes of grand jury
      secrecy. In 25 cases we were able to establish links between open
      proceedings and later newspaper articles containing information
      about the identities of witnesses and targets and the nature of
      grand jury investigations.
    Comptroller General, More Guidance and Supervision Needed over
    Federal Grand Jury Proceedings 8-9 (Oct. 16, 1980).
      The provisions of rule 6(e)(5) do not violate any constitutional
    right of the public or media to attend such pretrial hearings.
    There is no Sixth Amendment right in the public to attend pretrial
    proceedings, Gannett Co., Inc. v. DePasquale, 443 U.S. 368 (1979),
    and Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia, 448 U.S. 555, (1980),
    only recognizes a First Amendment "right to attend criminal
    trials." Richmond Newspapers was based largely upon the "unbroken,
    uncontradicted history" of public trials, while in Gannett it was
    noted "there exists no persuasive evidence that at common law
    members of the public had any right to attend pretrial
    proceedings." Moreover, even assuming some public right to attend
    certain pretrial proceedings, see United States v. Criden, 675 F.2d
    550 (3d Cir. 1982), that right is not absolute; it must give way,
    as stated in Richmond Newspapers, to "an overriding interest" in a
    particular case in favor of a closed proceeding. By permitting
    closure only "to the extent necessary to prevent disclosure of
    matters occurring before a grand jury," rule 6(e)(5) recognizes the
    longstanding interest in the secrecy of grand jury proceedings.
    Counsel or others allowed to be present at the closed hearing may
    be put under a protective order by the court.
      Subdivision (e)(5) is expressly made "subject to any right to an
    open hearing in contempt proceedings." This will accommodate any
    First Amendment right which might be deemed applicable in that
    context because of the proceedings' similarities to a criminal
    trial, cf. United States v. Criden, supra, and also any Fifth or
    Sixth Amendment right of the contemnor. The latter right clearly
    exists as to a criminal contempt proceeding, In re Oliver, 333 U.S.
    257 (1948), and some authority is to be found recognizing such a
    right in civil contempt proceedings as well. In re Rosahn, 671 F.2d
    690 (2d Cir. 1982). This right of the contemnor must be requested
    by him and, in any event, does not require that the entire contempt
    proceedings, including recitation of the substance of the questions
    he has refused to answer, be public. Levine v. United States, 362
    U.S. 610 (1960).
      Note to Subdivision (e)(6). Subdivision (e)(6) provides that
    records, orders and subpoenas relating to grand jury proceedings
    shall be kept under seal to the extent and for so long as is
    necessary to prevent disclosure of matters occurring before a grand
    jury. By permitting such documents as grand jury subpoenas and
    immunity orders to be kept under seal, this provision addresses a
    serious problem of grand jury secrecy and expressly authorizes a
    procedure now in use in many but not all districts. As reported in
    Comptroller General, More Guidance and Supervision Needed over
    Federal Grand Jury Proceedings 10, 14 (Oct. 16, 1980):
        In 262 cases, documents presented at open preindictment
      proceedings and filed in public files revealed details of grand
      jury investigations. These documents are, of course, available to
      anyone who wants them, including targets of investigations.
      [There are] two documents commonly found in public files which
      usually reveal the identities of witnesses and targets. The first
      document is a Department of Justice authorization to a U.S.
      attorney to apply to the court for a grant of immunity for a
      witness. The second document is the court's order granting the
      witness immunity from prosecution and compelling him to testify
      and produce requested information. * * *
        Subpoenas are the fundamental documents used during a grand
      jury's investigation because through subpoenas, grand juries can
      require witnesses to testify and produce documentary evidence for
      their consideration. Subpoenas can identify witnesses, potential
      targets, and the nature of an investigation. Rule 6(e) does not
      provide specific guidance on whether a grand jury's subpoena
      should be kept secret. Additionally, case law has not
      consistently stated whether the subpoenas are protected by rule
      6(e).
        District courts still have different opinions about whether
      grand jury subpoenas should be kept secret. Out of 40 Federal
      District Courts we contacted, 36 consider these documents to be
      secret. However, 4 districts do make them available to the
      public.
      Note to Subdivision (g). In its present form, subdivision 6(g)
    permits a grand jury to serve no more than 18 months after its
    members have been sworn, and absolutely no exceptions are
    permitted. (By comparison, under the Organized Crime Control Act of
    1970, Title I, 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3331-3334, special grand juries may
    be extended beyond their basic terms of 18 months if their business
    has not been completed.) The purpose of the amendment is to permit
    some degree of flexibility as to the discharge of grand juries
    where the public interest would be served by an extension.
      As noted in United States v. Fein, 504 F.2d 1170 (2d Cir. 1974),
    upholding the dismissal of an indictment returned 9 days after the
    expiration of the 18-month period but during an attempted
    extension, under the present inflexible rule "it may well be that
    criminal proceedings which would be in the public interest will be
    frustrated and that those who might be found guilty will escape
    trial and conviction." The present inflexible rule can produce
    several undesirable consequences, especially when complex fraud,
    organized crime, tax or antitrust cases are under investigation:
    (i) wastage of a significant amount of time and resources by the
    necessity of presenting the case once again to a successor grand
    jury simply because the matter could not be concluded before the
    term of the first grand jury expired; (ii) precipitous action to
    conclude the investigation before the expiration date of the grand
    jury; and (iii) potential defendants may be kept under
    investigation for a longer time because of the necessity to present
    the matter again to another grand jury.
      The amendment to subdivision 6(g) permits extension of a regular
    grand jury only "upon a determination that such extension is in the
    public interest." This permits some flexibility, but reflects the
    fact that extension of regular grand juries beyond 18 months is to
    be the exception and not the norm. The intention of the amendment
    is to make it possible for a grand jury to have sufficient extra
    time to wind up an investigation when, for example, such extension
    becomes necessary because of the unusual nature of the case or
    unforeseen developments.
      Because terms of court have been abolished, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 138,
    the second sentence of subdivision 6(g) has been deleted.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(A)(ii). Rule 6(e)(3)(A)(ii) currently
    provides that an attorney for the government may disclose grand
    jury information, without prior judicial approval, to other
    government personnel whose assistance the attorney for the
    government deems necessary in conducting the grand jury
    investigation. Courts have differed over whether employees of state
    and local governments are "government personnel" within the meaning
    of the rule. Compare In re Miami Federal Grand Jury No. 79-9, 478
    F.Supp. 490 (S.D.Fla. 1979), and In re Grand Jury Proceedings, 445
    F.Supp. 349 (D.R.I. 1978) (state and local personnel not included);
    with In re 1979 Grand Jury Proceedings, 479 F.Supp. 93 (E.D.N.Y.
    1979) (state and local personnel included). The amendment clarifies
    the rule to include state and local personnel.
      It is clearly desirable that federal and state authorities
    cooperate, as they often do, in organized crime and racketeering
    investigations, in public corruption and major fraud cases, and in
    various other situations where federal and state criminal
    jurisdictions overlap. Because of such cooperation, government
    attorneys in complex grand jury investigations frequently find it
    necessary to enlist the help of a team of government agents. While
    the agents are usually federal personnel, it is not uncommon in
    certain types of investigations that federal prosecutors wish to
    obtain the assistance of state law enforcement personnel, which
    could be uniquely beneficial. The amendment permits disclosure to
    those personnel in the circumstances stated.
      It must be emphasized that the disclosure permitted is limited.
    The disclosure under this subdivision is permissible only in
    connection with the attorney for the government's "duty to enforce
    federal criminal law" and only to those personnel "deemed necessary
    . . . to assist" in the performance of that duty. Under subdivision
    (e)(3)(B), the material disclosed may not be used for any other
    purpose, and the names of persons to whom disclosure is made must
    be promptly provided to the court.
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(B). The amendment to subdivision
    (e)(3)(B) imposes upon the attorney for the government the
    responsibility to certify to the district court that he has advised
    those persons to whom disclosure was made under subdivision
    (e)(3)(A)(ii) of their obligation of secrecy under Rule 6.
    Especially with the amendment of subdivision (e)(3)(A)(ii) to
    include personnel of a state or subdivision of a state, who
    otherwise would likely be unaware of this obligation of secrecy,
    the giving of such advice is an important step in ensuring against
    inadvertent breach of grand jury secrecy. But because not all
    federal government personnel will otherwise know of this
    obligation, the giving of the advice and certification thereof is
    required as to all persons receiving disclosure under subdivision
    (e)(3)(A)(ii).
      Note to Subdivision (e)(3)(C). It sometimes happens that during a
    federal grand jury investigation evidence will be developed tending
    to show a violation of state law. When this occurs, it is very
    frequently the case that this evidence cannot be communicated to
    the appropriate state officials for further investigation. For one
    thing, any state officials who might seek this information must
    show particularized need. Illinois v. Abbott & Associates, 103
    S.Ct. 1356 (1983). For another, and more significant, it is often
    the case that the information relates to a state crime outside the
    context of any pending or even contemplated state judicial
    proceeding, so that the "preliminarily to or in connection with a
    judicial proceeding" requirement of subdivision (e)(3)(C)(i) cannot
    be met.
      This inability lawfully to disclose evidence of a state criminal
    violation - evidence legitimately obtained by the grand jury -
    constitutes an unreasonable barrier to the effective enforcement of
    our two-tiered system of criminal laws. It would be removed by new
    subdivision (e)(3)(C)(iv), which would allow a court to permit
    disclosure to a state or local official for the purpose of
    enforcing state law when an attorney for the government so requests
    and makes the requisite showing.
      The federal court has been given control over any disclosure
    which is authorized, for subdivision (e)(3)(C) presently states
    that "the disclosure shall be made in such manner, at such time,
    and under such conditions as the court may direct." The Committee
    is advised that it will be the policy of the Department of Justice
    under this amendment to seek such disclosure only upon approval of
    the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division.
    There is no intention, by virtue of this amendment, to have federal
    grand juries act as an arm of the state.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      New subdivision (a)(2) gives express recognition to a practice
    now followed in some district courts, namely, that of designating
    alternate grand jurors at the time the grand jury is selected. (A
    person so designated does not attend court and is not paid the jury
    attendance fees and expenses authorized by 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1871
    unless subsequently impanelled pursuant to Rule 6(g).) Because such
    designation may be a more efficient procedure than election of
    additional grand jurors later as need arises under subdivision (g),
    the amendment makes it clear that it is a permissible step in the
    grand jury selection process.
      This amendment is not intended to work any change in subdivision
    (g). In particular, the fact that one or more alternate jurors
    either have or have not been previously designated does not limit
    the district court's discretion under subdivision (g) to decide
    whether, if a juror is excused temporarily or permanently, another
    person should replace him to assure the continuity of the grand
    jury and its ability to obtain a quorum in order to complete its
    business.
      The amendments [subdivisions (c) and (f)] are technical. No
    substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1999 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision 6(d). As currently written, Rule 6(d) absolutely bars
    any person, other than the jurors themselves, from being present
    during the jury's deliberations and voting. Accordingly,
    interpreters are barred from attending the deliberations and voting
    by the grand jury, even though they may have been present during
    the taking of testimony. The amendment is intended to permit
    interpreters to assist persons who are speech or hearing impaired
    and are serving on a grand jury. Although the Committee believes
    that the need for secrecy of grand jury deliberations and voting is
    paramount, permitting interpreters to assist hearing and speech
    impaired jurors in the process seems a reasonable accommodation.
    See also United States v. Dempsey, 830 F.2d 1084 (10th Cir. 1987)
    (constitutionally rooted prohibition of non-jurors being present
    during deliberations was not violated by interpreter for deaf petit
    jury member).
      The subdivision has also been restyled and reorganized.
      Subdivision 6(f). The amendment to Rule 6(f) is intended to avoid
    the problems associated with bringing the entire jury to the court
    for the purpose of returning an indictment. Although the practice
    is long-standing, in Breese v. United States, 226 U.S. 1 (1912),
    the Court rejected the argument that the requirement was rooted in
    the Constitution and observed that if there were ever any strong
    reasons for the requirement, "they have disappeared, at least in
    part." 226 U.S. at 9. The Court added that grand jury's presence at
    the time the indictment was presented was a defect, if at all, in
    form only. Id. at 11. Given the problems of space, in some
    jurisdictions the grand jury sits in a building completely
    separated from the courtrooms. In those cases, moving the entire
    jury to the courtroom for the simple process of presenting the
    indictment may prove difficult and time consuming. Even where the
    jury is in the same location, having all of the jurors present can
    be unnecessarily cumbersome in light of the fact that filing of the
    indictment requires a certification as to how the jurors voted.
      The amendment provides that the indictment must be presented
    either by the jurors themselves, as currently provided for in the
    rule, or by the foreperson or the deputy foreperson, acting on
    behalf of the jurors. In an appropriate case, the court might
    require all of the jurors to be present if it had inquiries about
    the indictment.
      GAP Report - Rule 6. The Committee modified Rule 6(d) to permit
    only interpreters assisting hearing or speech impaired grand jurors
    to be present during deliberations and voting.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 6 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic, except as noted below.
      The first change is in Rule 6(b)(1). The last sentence of current
    Rule 6(b)(1) provides that "Challenges shall be made before the
    administration of the oath to the jurors and shall be tried by the
    court." That language has been deleted from the amended rule. The
    remainder of this subdivision rests on the assumption that formal
    proceedings have begun against a person, i.e., an indictment has
    been returned. The Committee believed that although the first
    sentence reflects current practice of a defendant being able to
    challenge the composition or qualifications of the grand jurors
    after the indictment is returned, the second sentence does not
    comport with modern practice. That is, a defendant will normally
    not know the composition of the grand jury or identity of the grand
    jurors before they are administered their oath. Thus, there is no
    opportunity to challenge them and have the court decide the issue
    before the oath is given.
      In Rule 6(d)(1), the term "court stenographer" has been changed
    to "court reporter." Similar changes have been made in Rule 6(e)(1)
    and (2).
      Rule 6(e) continues to spell out the general rule of secrecy of
    grand-jury proceedings and the exceptions to that general rule. The
    last sentence in current Rule 6(e)(2), concerning contempt for
    violating Rule 6, now appears in Rule 6(e)(7). No change in
    substance is intended.
      Rule 6(e)(3)(A)(ii) includes a new provision recognizing the
    sovereignty of Indian Tribes and the possibility that it would be
    necessary to disclose grand-jury information to appropriate tribal
    officials in order to enforce federal law. Similar language has
    been added to Rule 6(e)(3)(D)(iii).
      Rule 6(e)(3)(A)(iii) is a new provision that recognizes that
    disclosure may be made to a person under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3322
    (authorizing disclosures to an attorney for the government and
    banking regulators for enforcing civil forfeiture and civil banking
    laws). This reference was added to avoid the possibility of the
    amendments to Rule 6 superseding that particular statute.
      Rule 6(e)(3)(C) consists of language located in current Rule
    6(e)(3)(C)(iii). The Committee believed that this provision, which
    recognizes that prior court approval is not required for disclosure
    of a grand-jury matter to another grand jury, should be treated as
    a separate subdivision in revised Rule 6(e)(3). No change in
    practice is intended.
      Rule 6(e)(3)(D) is new and reflects changes made to Rule 6 in the
    Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
    Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act
    of 2001. The new provision permits an attorney for the government
    to disclose grand-jury matters involving foreign intelligence or
    counterintelligence to other Federal officials, in order to assist
    those officials in performing their duties. Under Rule
    6(e)(3)(D)(i), the federal official receiving the information may
    only use the information as necessary and may be otherwise limited
    in making further disclosures. Any disclosures made under this
    provision must be reported under seal, within a reasonable time, to
    the court. The term "foreign intelligence information" is defined
    in Rule 6(e)(3)(D)(iii).
      Rule 6(e)(3)(E)(iv) is a new provision that addresses disclosure
    of grand-jury information to armed forces personnel where the
    disclosure is for the purpose of enforcing military criminal law
    under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. Secs. 801-
    946. See, e.g., Department of Defense Directive 5525.7 (January
    22, 1985); 1984 Memorandum of Understanding Between Department of
    Justice and the Department of Defense Relating to the Investigation
    and Prosecution of Certain Crimes; Memorandum of Understanding
    Between the Departments of Justice and Transportation (Coast Guard)
    Relating to the Investigations and Prosecution of Crimes Over Which
    the Two Departments Have Concurrent Jurisdiction (October 9, 1967).
      In Rule 6(e)(3)(F)(ii), the Committee considered whether to amend
    the language relating to "parties to the judicial proceeding" and
    determined that in the context of the rule it is understood that
    the parties referred to are the parties in the same judicial
    proceeding identified in Rule 6(e)(3)(E)(i).
      The Committee decided to leave in subdivision (e) the provision
    stating that a "knowing violation of Rule 6" may be punished by
    contempt notwithstanding that, due to its apparent application to
    the entirety of the Rule, the provision seemingly is misplaced in
    subdivision (e). Research shows that Congress added the provision
    in 1977 and that it was crafted solely to deal with violations of
    the secrecy prohibitions in subdivision (e). See S. Rep. No. 95-
    354, p. 8 (1977). Supporting this narrow construction, the
    Committee found no reported decision involving an application or
    attempted use of the contempt sanction to a violation other than of
    the disclosure restrictions in subdivision (e). On the other hand,
    the Supreme Court in dicta did indicate on one occasion its
    arguable understanding that the contempt sanction would be
    available also for a violation of Rule 6(d) relating to who may be
    present during the grand jury's deliberations. Bank of Nova Scotia
    v. United States, 487 U.S. 250, 263 (1988).
      In sum, it appears that the scope of the contempt sanction in
    Rule 6 is unsettled. Because the provision creates an offense,
    altering its scope may be beyond the authority bestowed by the
    Rules Enabling Act, 28 U.S.C. Secs. 2071 et seq. See 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    2072(b) (Rules must not "abridge, enlarge, or modify any
    substantive right"). The Committee decided to leave the contempt
    provision in its present location in subdivision (e), because
    breaking it out into a separate subdivision could be construed to
    support the interpretation that the sanction may be applied to a
    knowing violation of any of the Rule's provisions rather than just
    those in subdivision (e). Whether or not that is a correct
    interpretation of the provision - a matter on which the Committee
    takes no position - must be determined by case law, or resolved by
    Congress.
      Current Rule 6(g) has been divided into two new subdivisions,
    Rule 6(g), Discharge, and Rule 6(h), Excuse. The Committee added
    the phrase in Rule 6(g) "except as otherwise provided by statute,"
    to recognize the provisions of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3331 relating to
    special grand juries.
      Rule 6(i) is a new provision defining the term "Indian Tribe," a
    term used only in this rule.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (e)(3) and (7). This amendment makes technical
    changes to the language added to Rule 6 by the Intelligence Reform
    and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004, Pub. L. 108-458, Title VI,
    Sec. 6501(a), 118 Stat. 3760, in order to bring the new language
    into conformity with the conventions introduced in the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (f). The amendment expressly allows a judge to take a
    grand jury return by video teleconference. Having the judge in the
    same courtroom remains the preferred practice because it promotes
    the public's confidence in the integrity and solemnity of a federal
    criminal proceeding. But there are situations when no judge is
    present in the courthouse where the grand jury sits, and a judge
    would be required to travel long distances to take the return.
    Avoiding delay is also a factor, since the Speedy Trial Act, 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3161(b), requires that an indictment be returned within
    thirty days of the arrest of an individual to avoid dismissal of
    the case. The amendment is particularly helpful when there is no
    judge present at a courthouse where the grand jury sits and the
    nearest judge is hundreds of miles away.
      Under the amendment, the grand jury (or the foreperson) would
    appear in a courtroom in the United States courthouse where the
    grand jury sits. Utilizing video teleconference, the judge could
    participate by video from a remote location, convene court, and
    take the return. Indictments could be transmitted in advance to the
    judge for review by reliable electronic means. This process
    accommodates the Speedy Trial Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3161(b), and
    preserves the judge's time and safety.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the amendment as published.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Uniform Code of Military Justice, referred to in subd.
    (e)(3)(E)(v), is classified to chapter 47 (Sec. 801 et seq.) of
    Title 10, Armed Forces.


-MISC2-
                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      2004 - Subd. (e)(3)(A)(ii). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(A),
    substituted ", state subdivision, Indian tribe, or foreign
    government" for "or state subdivision or of an Indian tribe".
      Subd. (e)(3)(D). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(B)(i), inserted
    after first sentence "An attorney for the government may also
    disclose any grand jury matter involving, within the United States
    or elsewhere, a threat of attack or other grave hostile acts of a
    foreign power or its agent, a threat of domestic or international
    sabotage or terrorism, or clandestine intelligence gathering
    activities by an intelligence service or network of a foreign power
    or by its agent, to any appropriate Federal, State, State
    subdivision, Indian tribal, or foreign government official, for the
    purpose of preventing or responding to such threat or activities."
      Subd. (e)(3)(D)(i). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(B)(ii),
    struck out "federal" before "official who" in first sentence and
    inserted at end "Any State, State subdivision, Indian tribal, or
    foreign government official who receives information under Rule
    6(e)(3)(D) may use the information only consistent with such
    guidelines as the Attorney General and the Director of National
    Intelligence shall jointly issue."
      Subd. (e)(3)(E)(iii). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(C)(ii),
    added cl. (iii). Former cl. (iii) redesignated (iv).
      Subd. (e)(3)(E)(iv). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(C)(iii),
    substituted "State, Indian tribal, or foreign" for "state or Indian
    tribal" and "Indian tribal, or foreign government official" for "or
    Indian tribal official".
      Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(C)(i), redesignated cl. (iii) as
    (iv). Former cl. (iv) redesignated (v).
      Subd. (e)(3)(E)(v). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(1)(C)(i),
    redesignated cl. (iv) as (v).
      Subd. (e)(7). Pub. L. 108-458, Sec. 6501(a)(2), inserted ", or of
    guidelines jointly issued by the Attorney General and the Director
    of National Intelligence pursuant to Rule 6," after "violation of
    Rule 6".
      2002 - Subd. (e). Pub. L. 107-296, Sec. 895, which directed
    certain amendments to subdiv. (e), could not be executed because of
    the amendment by the Court by order dated Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec.
    1, 2002. Section 895 of Pub. L. 107-296 provided:
      "Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is amended -
     
        "(1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ', or of guidelines jointly
      issued by the Attorney General and Director of Central
      Intelligence pursuant to Rule 6,' after 'Rule 6'; and
        "(2) in paragraph (3) - 
          "(A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting 'or of a foreign
        government' after '(including personnel of a state or
        subdivision of a state';
          "(B) in subparagraph (C)(i) - 
            "(i) in subclause (I), by inserting before the semicolon
          the following: 'or, upon a request by an attorney for the
          government, when sought by a foreign court or prosecutor for
          use in an official criminal investigation';
            "(ii) in subclause (IV) - 
     "(I) by inserting 'or foreign' after 'may disclose a violation of State';
     "(II) by inserting 'or of a foreign government' after 'to an appropriate official of a State or subdivision of a State'; and
     "(III) by striking 'or' at the end;
            "(iii) by striking the period at the end of subclause (V)
          and inserting '; or'; and
            "(iv) by adding at the end the following:
            " '(VI) when matters involve a threat of actual or
          potential attack or other grave hostile acts of a foreign
          power or an agent of a foreign power, domestic or
          international sabotage, domestic or international terrorism,
          or clandestine intelligence gathering activities by an
          intelligence service or network of a foreign power or by an
          agent of a foreign power, within the United States or
          elsewhere, to any appropriate federal, state, local, or
          foreign government official for the purpose of preventing or
          responding to such a threat.'; and
          "(C) in subparagraph (C)(iii) - 
            "(i) by striking 'Federal';
            "(ii) by inserting 'or clause (i)(VI)' after 'clause
          (i)(V)'; and
            "(iii) by adding at the end the following: 'Any state,
          local, or foreign official who receives information pursuant
          to clause (i)(VI) shall use that information only consistent
          with such guidelines as the Attorney General and Director of
          Central Intelligence shall jointly issue.'."
      2001 - Subd. (e)(3)(C). Pub. L. 107-56, Sec. 203(a)(1), amended
    subpar. (C) generally. Prior to amendment, subpar. (C) read as
    follows: "Disclosure otherwise prohibited by this rule of matters
    occurring before the grand jury may also be made - 
        "(i) when so directed by a court preliminarily to or in
      connection with a judicial proceeding;
        "(ii) when permitted by a court at the request of the
      defendant, upon a showing that grounds may exist for a motion to
      dismiss the indictment because of matters occurring before the
      grand jury;
        "(iii) when the disclosure is made by an attorney for the
      government to another federal grand jury; or
        "(iv) when permitted by a court at the request of an attorney
      for the government, upon a showing that such matters may disclose
      a violation of state criminal law, to an appropriate official of
      a state or subdivision of a state for the purpose of enforcing
      such law.
    If the court orders disclosure of matters occurring before the
    grand jury, the disclosure shall be made in such manner, at such
    time, and under such conditions as the court may direct."
      Subd. (e)(3)(D). Pub. L. 107-56, Sec. 203(a)(2), substituted
    "subdivision (e)(3)(C)(i)(I)" for "subdivision (e)(3)(C)(i)".
      1984 - Subd. (e)(3)(C)(iv). Pub. L. 98-473, eff. Nov. 1, 1987,
    added subcl. (iv), identical to subcl. (iv) which had been
    previously added by Order of the Supreme Court dated Apr. 29, 1985,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1985, thereby requiring no change in text.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-473 effective Nov. 1, 1987, and
    applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of
    such amendment, see section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473, set out as
    an Effective Date note under section 3551 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1977 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by order of the United States Supreme
    Court on Apr. 26, 1977, modified and approved by Pub. L. 95-78,
    effective Oct. 1, 1977, see section 4 of Pub. L. 95-78, set out as
    an Effective Date of Pub. L. 95-78 note under section 2074 of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1976 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of subd. (f) by the order of the United States Supreme
    Court of Apr. 26, 1976, effective Aug. 1, 1976, see section 1 of
    Pub. L. 94-349, July 8, 1976, 90 Stat. 822, set out as a note under
    section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 7                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION

-HEAD-
    Rule 7. The Indictment and the Information

-STATUTE-
      (a) When Used.
        (1) Felony. An offense (other than criminal contempt) must be
      prosecuted by an indictment if it is punishable:
          (A) by death; or
          (B) by imprisonment for more than one year.

        (2) Misdemeanor. An offense punishable by imprisonment for one
      year or less may be prosecuted in accordance with Rule 58(b)(1).

      (b) Waiving Indictment. An offense punishable by imprisonment for
    more than one year may be prosecuted by information if the
    defendant - in open court and after being advised of the nature of
    the charge and of the defendant's rights - waives prosecution by
    indictment.
      (c) Nature and Contents.
        (1) In General. The indictment or information must be a plain,
      concise, and definite written statement of the essential facts
      constituting the offense charged and must be signed by an
      attorney for the government. It need not contain a formal
      introduction or conclusion. A count may incorporate by reference
      an allegation made in another count. A count may allege that the
      means by which the defendant committed the offense are unknown or
      that the defendant committed it by one or more specified means.
      For each count, the indictment or information must give the
      official or customary citation of the statute, rule, regulation,
      or other provision of law that the defendant is alleged to have
      violated. For purposes of an indictment referred to in section
      3282 of title 18, United States Code, for which the identity of
      the defendant is unknown, it shall be sufficient for the
      indictment to describe the defendant as an individual whose name
      is unknown, but who has a particular DNA profile, as that term is
      defined in that section 3282.
        (2) Citation Error. Unless the defendant was misled and thereby
      prejudiced, neither an error in a citation nor a citation's
      omission is a ground to dismiss the indictment or information or
      to reverse a conviction.

      (d) Surplusage. Upon the defendant's motion, the court may strike
    surplusage from the indictment or information.
      (e) Amending an Information. Unless an additional or different
    offense is charged or a substantial right of the defendant is
    prejudiced, the court may permit an information to be amended at
    any time before the verdict or finding.
      (f) Bill of Particulars. The court may direct the government to
    file a bill of particulars. The defendant may move for a bill of
    particulars before or within 14 days after arraignment or at a
    later time if the court permits. The government may amend a bill of
    particulars subject to such conditions as justice requires.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Aug. 1, 1979; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 17, 2000, eff. Dec. 1, 2000; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002; Pub. L. 108-21, title VI, Sec. 610(b), Apr. 30, 2003,
    117 Stat. 692; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. This rule gives effect to the
    following provision of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of
    the United States: "No person shall be held to answer for a
    capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or
    indictment of a Grand Jury * * *". An infamous crime has been
    defined as a crime punishable by death or by imprisonment in a
    penitentiary or at hard labor, Ex parte Wilson, 114 U.S. 417, 427;
    United States v. Moreland, 258 U.S. 433. Any sentence of
    imprisonment for a term of over one year may be served in a
    penitentiary, if so directed by the Attorney General, 18 U.S.C.
    753f [now 4082, 4083] (Commitment of persons by any court of the
    United States and the juvenile court of the District of Columbia;
    place of confinement; transfers). Consequently any offense
    punishable by imprisonment for a term of over one year is an
    infamous crime.
      2. Petty offenses and misdemeanors for which no infamous
    punishment is prescribed may now be prosecuted by information, 18
    U.S.C. 541 [see 1] (Felonies and misdemeanors); Duke v. United
    States, 301 U.S. 492.
      3. For a discussion of the provision for waiver of indictment,
    see Note to Rule 7(b), infra.
      4. Presentment is not included as an additional type of formal
    accusation, since presentments as a method of instituting
    prosecutions are obsolete, at least as concerns the Federal courts.
      Note to Subdivision (b). 1. Opportunity to waive indictment and
    to consent to prosecution by information will be a substantial aid
    to defendants, especially those who, because of inability to give
    bail, are incarcerated pending action of the grand jury, but desire
    to plead guilty. This rule is particularly important in those
    districts in which considerable intervals occur between sessions of
    the grand jury. In many districts where the grand jury meets
    infrequently a defendant unable to give bail and desiring to plead
    guilty is compelled to spend many days, and sometimes many weeks,
    and even months, in jail before he can begin the service of his
    sentence, whatever it may be, awaiting the action of a grand jury.
    Homer Cummings, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 654-655; Vanderbilt, 29 A.B.A.Jour.
    376, 377; Robinson, 27 Jour. of the Am. Judicature Soc. 38, 45;
    Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R. (3)1, 3. The rule contains safeguards
    against improvident waivers.
      The Judicial Conference of Senior Circuit Judges, in September
    1941, recommended that "existing law or established procedure be so
    changed, that a defendant may waive indictment and plead guilty to
    an information filed by a United States attorney in all cases
    except capital felonies." Report of the Judicial Conference of
    Senior Circuit Judges (1941) 13. In September 1942 the Judicial
    Conference recommended that provision be made "for waiver of
    indictment and jury trial, so that persons accused of crime may not
    be held in jail needlessly pending trial." Id. (1942) 8.
      Attorneys General of the United States have from time to time
    recommended legislation to permit defendants to waive indictment
    and to consent to prosecution by information. See Annual Report of
    the Attorney General of the United States (Mitchell) (1931) 3; Id.
    (Mitchell) (1932) 6; Id. (Cummings) (1933) 1, (1936) 2, (1937) 11,
    (1938) 9; Id. (Murphy) (1939) 7.
      The Federal Juvenile Delinquency Act [now 18 U.S.C. 5031-5037],
    now permits a juvenile charged with an offense not punishable by
    death or life imprisonment to consent to prosecution by information
    on a charge of juvenile delinquency, 18 U.S.C. 922 [now 5032,
    5033].
      2. On the constitutionality of this rule, see United States v.
    Gill, 55 F.2d 399 (D.N.M.), holding that the constitutional
    guaranty of indictment by grand jury may be waived by defendant. It
    has also been held that other constitutional guaranties may be
    waived by the defendant, e. g., Patton v. United States, 281 U.S.
    276 (trial by jury); Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U.S. 458, 465 (right of
    counsel); Trono v. United States, 199 U.S. 521, 534 (protection
    against double jeopardy); United States v. Murdock, 284 U.S. 141,
    148 (privilege against self-incrimination); Diaz v. United States,
    223 U.S. 442, 450 (right of confrontation).
      Note to Subdivision (c). 1. This rule introduces a simple form of
    indictment, illustrated by Forms 1 to 11 in the Appendix of Forms.
    Cf. Rule 8(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix]. For discussion of the effect of this rule and a
    comparison between the present form of indictment and the simple
    form introduced by this rule, see Vanderbilt, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 376,
    377; Homer Cummings, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 654, 655; Holtzoff, 3 F.R.D.
    445, 448-449; Holtzoff, 12 Geo. Washington L.R. 119, 123-126;
    Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R. (3)1, 3.
      2. The provision contained in the fifth sentence that it may be
    alleged in a single count that the means by which the defendant
    committed the offense are unknown, or that he committed it by one
    or more specified means, is intended to eliminate the use of
    multiple counts for the purpose of alleging the commission of the
    offense by different means or in different ways. Cf. Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure, Rule 8(e)(2) [28 U.S.C., Appendix].
      3. The law at present regards citations to statutes or
    regulations as not a part of the indictment. A conviction may be
    sustained on the basis of a statute or regulation other than that
    cited. Williams v. United States, 168 U.S. 382, 389; United States
    v. Hutcheson, 312 U.S. 219, 229. The provision of the rule, in view
    of the many statutes and regulations, is for the benefit of the
    defendant and is not intended to cause a dismissal of the
    indictment, but simply to provide a means by which he can be
    properly informed without danger to the prosecution.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule introduces a means of
    protecting the defendant against immaterial or irrelevant
    allegations in an indictment or information, which may, however, be
    prejudicial. The authority of the court to strike such surplusage
    is to be limited to doing so on defendant's motion, in the light of
    the rule that the guaranty of indictment by a grand jury implies
    that an indictment may not be amended, Ex parte Bain, 121 U.S. 1.
    By making such a motion, the defendant would, however, waive his
    rights in this respect.
      Note to Subdivision (e). This rule continues the existing law
    that, unlike an indictment, an information may be amended, Muncy v.
    United States, 289 F. 780 (C.C.A. 4th).
      Note to Subdivision (f). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing law on bills of particulars.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to the first sentence eliminating the requirement
    of a showing of cause is designed to encourage a more liberal
    attitude by the courts toward bills of particulars without taking
    away the discretion which courts must have in dealing with such
    motions in individual cases. For an illustration of wise use of
    this discretion see the opinion by Justice Whittaker written when
    he was a district judge in United States v. Smith, 16 F.R.D. 372
    (W.D.Mo. 1954).
      The amendment to the second sentence gives discretion to the
    court to permit late filing of motions for bills of particulars in
    meritorious cases. Use of late motions for the purpose of delaying
    trial should not, of course, be permitted. The courts have not been
    agreed as to their power to accept late motions in the absence of a
    local rule or a previous order. See United States v. Miller, 217
    F.Supp. 760 (E.D.Pa. 1963); United States v. Taylor, 25 F.R.D. 225
    (E.D.N.Y. 1960); United States v. Sterling, 122 F.Supp. 81 (E.D.Pa.
    1954) (all taking a limited view of the power of the court). But
    cf. United States v. Brown, 179 F.Supp. 893 (E.D.N.Y. 1959)
    (exercising discretion to permit an out of time motion).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (c)(2) is new. It is intended to provide procedural
    implementation of the recently enacted criminal forfeiture
    provision of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, Title IX,
    Sec. 1963, and the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
    Act of 1970, Title II, Sec. 408(a)(2).
      The Congress viewed the provisions of the Organized Crime Control
    Act of 1970 as reestablishing a limited common law criminal
    forfeiture. S. Rep. No. 91-617, 91st Cong., 1st Sess. 79-80 (1969).
    The legislative history of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention
    and Control Act of 1970 indicates a congressional purpose to have
    similar procedures apply to the forfeiture of profits or interests
    under that act. H. Rep. No. 91-1444 (part I), 91st Cong., 2d Sess.
    81-85 (1970).
      Under the common law, in a criminal forfeiture proceeding the
    defendant was apparently entitled to notice, trial, and a special
    jury finding on the factual issues surrounding the declaration of
    forfeiture which followed his criminal conviction. Subdivision
    (c)(2) provides for notice. Changes in rules 31 and 32 provide for
    a special jury finding and for a judgment authorizing the Attorney
    General to seize the interest or property forfeited.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to rule 7(c)(2) is intended to clarify its meaning.
    Subdivision (c)(2) was added in 1972, and, as noted in the Advisory
    Committee Note thereto, was "intended to provide procedural
    implementation of the recently enacted criminal forfeiture
    provision of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, Title IX,
    Sec. 1963, and the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
    Act of 1970, Title II, Sec. 408(a)(2)." These provisions
    reestablished a limited common law criminal forfeiture,
    necessitating the addition of subdivision (c)(2) and corresponding
    changes in rules 31 and 32, for at common law the defendant in a
    criminal forfeiture proceeding was entitled to notice, trial, and a
    special jury finding on the factual issues surrounding the
    declaration of forfeiture which followed his criminal conviction.
      Although there is some doubt as to what forfeitures should be
    characterized as "punitive" rather than "remedial," see Note, 62
    Cornell L.Rev. 768 (1977), subdivision (c)(2) is intended to apply
    to those forfeitures which are criminal in the sense that they
    result from a special verdict under rule 31(e) and a judgment under
    rule 32(b)(2), and not to those resulting from a separate in rem
    proceeding. Because some confusion in this regard has resulted from
    the present wording of subdivision (c)(2), United States v. Hall,
    521 F.2d 406 (9th Cir. 1975), a clarifying amendment is in order.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2000 AMENDMENT             
      The rule is amended to reflect new Rule 32.2, which now governs
    criminal forfeiture procedures.
      GAP Report - Rule 7. The Committee initially made no changes to
    the published draft of the Rule 7 amendment. However, because of
    changes to Rule 32.2(a), discussed infra, the proposed language has
    been changed to reflect that the indictment must provide notice of
    an intent to seek forfeiture.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 7 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic.
      The Committee has deleted the references to "hard labor" in the
    rule. This punishment is not found in current federal statutes.
      The Committee added an exception for criminal contempt to the
    requirement in Rule 7(a)(1) that a prosecution for felony must be
    initiated by indictment. This is consistent with case law, e.g.,
    United States v. Eichhorst, 544 F.2d 1383 (7th Cir. 1976), which
    has sustained the use of the special procedures for instituting
    criminal contempt proceedings found in Rule 42. While indictment is
    not a required method of bringing felony criminal contempt charges,
    however, it is a permissible one. See United States v. Williams,
    622 F.2d 830 (5th Cir. 1980). No change in practice is intended.
      The title of Rule 7(c)(3) has been amended. The Committee
    believed that potential confusion could arise with the use of the
    term "harmless error." Rule 52, which deals with the issues of
    harmless error and plain error, is sufficient to address the topic.
    Potentially, the topic of harmless error could arise with regard to
    any of the other rules and there is insufficient need to highlight
    the term in Rule 7. Rule 7(c)(3), on the other hand, focuses
    specifically on the effect of an error in the citation of authority
    in the indictment. That material remains but without any reference
    to harmless error.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The time set in the former rule at 10 days has been revised to 14
    days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).
      Subdivision (c). The provision regarding forfeiture is obsolete.
    In 2000 the same language was repeated in subdivision (a) of Rule
    32.2, which was intended to consolidate the rules dealing with
    forfeiture.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      2003 - Subd. (c)(1). Pub. L. 108-21 inserted at end "For purposes
    of an indictment referred to in section 3282 of title 18, United
    States Code, for which the identity of the defendant is unknown, it
    shall be sufficient for the indictment to describe the defendant as
    an individual whose name is unknown, but who has a particular DNA
    profile, as that term is defined in that section 3282."

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 8                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION

-HEAD-
    Rule 8. Joinder of Offenses or Defendants

-STATUTE-
      (a) Joinder of Offenses. The indictment or information may charge
    a defendant in separate counts with 2 or more offenses if the
    offenses charged - whether felonies or misdemeanors or both - are
    of the same or similar character, or are based on the same act or
    transaction, or are connected with or constitute parts of a common
    scheme or plan.
      (b) Joinder of Defendants. The indictment or information may
    charge 2 or more defendants if they are alleged to have
    participated in the same act or transaction, or in the same series
    of acts or transactions, constituting an offense or offenses. The
    defendants may be charged in one or more counts together or
    separately. All defendants need not be charged in each count.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 557 (Indictments and
    presentments; joinder of charges).
      Note to Subdivision (b). The first sentence of the rule is
    substantially a restatement of existing law, 9 Edmunds, Cyclopedia
    of Federal Procedure (2d Ed.) 4116. The second sentence formulates
    a practice now approved in some circuits. Caringella v. United
    States, 78 F.2d 563, 567 (C.C.A. 7th).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 8 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 9                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE III. THE GRAND JURY, THE INDICTMENT, AND THE INFORMATION

-HEAD-
    Rule 9. Arrest Warrant or Summons on an Indictment or Information

-STATUTE-
      (a) Issuance. The court must issue a warrant - or at the
    government's request, a summons - for each defendant named in an
    indictment or named in an information if one or more affidavits
    accompanying the information establish probable cause to believe
    that an offense has been committed and that the defendant committed
    it. The court may issue more than one warrant or summons for the
    same defendant. If a defendant fails to appear in response to a
    summons, the court may, and upon request of an attorney for the
    government must, issue a warrant. The court must issue the arrest
    warrant to an officer authorized to execute it or the summons to a
    person authorized to serve it.
      (b) Form.
        (1) Warrant. The warrant must conform to Rule 4(b)(1) except
      that it must be signed by the clerk and must describe the offense
      charged in the indictment or information.
        (2) Summons. The summons must be in the same form as a warrant
      except that it must require the defendant to appear before the
      court at a stated time and place.

      (c) Execution or Service; Return; Initial Appearance.
        (1) Execution or Service.
          (A) The warrant must be executed or the summons served as
        provided in Rule 4(c)(1), (2), and (3).
          (B) The officer executing the warrant must proceed in
        accordance with Rule 5(a)(1).

        (2) Return. A warrant or summons must be returned in accordance
      with Rule 4(c)(4).
        (3) Initial Appearance. When an arrested or summoned defendant
      first appears before the court, the judge must proceed under Rule
      5.

      (d) Warrant by Telephone or Other Means. In accordance with Rule
    4.1, a magistrate judge may issue an arrest warrant or summons
    based on information communicated by telephone or other reliable
    electronic means.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 22, 1974, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 3(4), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat.
    370; Pub. L. 94-149, Sec. 5, Dec. 12, 1975, 89 Stat. 806; Apr. 30,
    1979, eff. Aug. 1, 1979; Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1, 1982; Apr. 22,
    1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 26,
    2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. See Note to Rule 4, supra.
      2. The provision of Rule 9(a) that a warrant may be issued on the
    basis of an information only if the latter is supported by oath is
    necessitated by the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of the
    United States. See Albrecht v. United States, 273 U.S. 1, 5.
      3. The provision of Rule 9(b)(1) that the amount of bail may be
    fixed by the court and endorsed on the warrant states a practice
    now prevailing in many districts and is intended to facilitate the
    giving of bail by the defendant and eliminate delays between the
    arrest and the giving of bail, which might ensue if bail cannot be
    fixed until after arrest.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (b) is amended to make clear that the person arrested
    shall be brought before a United States magistrate if the
    information or indictment charges a "minor offense" triable by the
    United States magistrate.
      Subdivision (c) is amended to reflect the office of United States
    magistrate.
      Subdivision (d) is new. It provides for a remand to the United
    States magistrate of cases in which the person is charged with a
    "minor offense." The magistrate can then proceed in accordance with
    rule 5 to try the case if the right to trial before a judge of the
    district court is waived.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 9 is revised to give high priority to the issuance of a
    summons unless a "valid reason" is given for the issuance of an
    arrest warrant. See a comparable provision in rule 4.
      Under the rule, a summons will issue by the clerk unless the
    attorney for the government presents a valid reason for the
    issuance of an arrest warrant. Under the old rule, it has been
    argued that the court must issue an arrest warrant if one is
    desired by the attorney for the government. See authorities listed
    in Frankel, Bench Warrants Upon the Prosecutor's Demand: A View
    From the Bench, 71 Colum.L.Rev. 403, 410 n. 25 (1971). For an
    expression of the view that this is undesirable policy, see
    Frankel, supra, pp. 410-415.
      A summons may issue if there is an information supported by oath.
    The indictment itself is sufficient to establish the existence of
    probable cause. See C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure:
    Criminal Sec. 151 (1969); 8 J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182;
    9.02[2] at p. 9-4 (2d ed.) Cipes (1969); Giordenello v. United
    States, 357 U.S. 480, 78 S.Ct. 1245, 2 L.Ed. 2d 1503 (1958). This
    is not necessarily true in the case of an information. See C.
    Wright, supra, Sec. 151; 8 J. Moore, supra, &#182; 9.02. If the
    government requests a warrant rather than a summons, good practice
    would obviously require the judge to satisfy himself that there is
    probable cause. This may appear from the information or from an
    affidavit filed with the information. Also a defendant can, at a
    proper time, challenge an information issued without probable
    cause.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 9 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure is closely related to Rule 4.
    Rule 9 deals with arrest procedures after an information has been
    filed or an indictment returned. The present rule gives the
    prosecutor the authority to decide whether a summons or a warrant
    shall issue.
      The Supreme Court's amendments to Rule 9 parallel its amendments
    to Rule 4. The basic change made in Rule 4 is also made in Rule 9.
      B. Committee Action. For the reasons set forth above in
    connection with Rule 4, the Committee endorses and accepts the
    basic change in Rule 9. The Committee made changes in Rule 9
    similar to the changes it made in Rule 4.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a) is amended to make explicit the fact that a
    warrant may issue upon the basis of an information only if the
    information or an affidavit filed with the information shows
    probable cause for the arrest. This has generally been assumed to
    be the state of the law even though not specifically set out in
    rule 9; see C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal
    Sec. 151 (1969); 8 J. Moore, Federal Practice par. 9.02[2] (2d ed.
    1976).
      In Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U.S. 103 (1975), the Supreme Court
    rejected the contention "that the prosecutor's decision to file an
    information is itself a determination of probable cause that
    furnishes sufficient reason to detain a defendant pending trial,"
    commenting:
        Although a conscientious decision that the evidence warrants
      prosecution affords a measure of protection against unfounded
      detention, we do not think prosecutorial judgment standing alone
      meets the requirements of the Fourth Amendment. Indeed, we think
      the Court's previous decisions compel disapproval of [such]
      procedure. In Albrecht v. United States, 273 U.S. 1, 5, 47 S.Ct.
      250, 251, 71 L.Ed. 505 (1927), the Court held that an arrest
      warrant issued solely upon a United States Attorney's information
      was invalid because the accompanying affidavits were defective.
      Although the Court's opinion did not explicitly state that the
      prosecutor's official oath could not furnish probable cause, that
      conclusion was implicit in the judgment that the arrest was
      illegal under the Fourth Amendment.
      No change is made in the rule with respect to warrants issuing
    upon indictments. In Gerstein, the Court indicated it was not
    disturbing the prior rule that "an indictment, 'fair upon its
    face,' and returned by a 'properly constituted grand jury'
    conclusively determines the existence of probable cause and
    requires issuance of an arrest warrant without further inquiry."
    See Ex parte United States, 287 U.S. 241, 250 (1932).
      The provision to the effect that a summons shall issue "by
    direction of the court" has been eliminated because it conflicts
    with the first sentence of the rule, which states that a warrant
    "shall" issue when requested by the attorney for the government, if
    properly supported. However, an addition has been made providing
    that if the attorney for the government does not make a request for
    either a warrant or summons, then the court may in its discretion
    issue either one. Other stylistic changes ensure greater
    consistency with comparable provisions in rule 4.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (a). The amendment of subdivision (a), by
    reference to Rule 5, clarifies what is to be done once the
    defendant is brought before the magistrate. This means, among other
    things, that no preliminary hearing is to be held in a Rule 9 case,
    as Rule 5(c) provides that no such hearing is to be had "if the
    defendant is indicted or if an information against the defendant is
    filed."
      Note to Subdivision (b). The amendment of subdivision (b)
    conforms Rule 9 to the comparable provisions in Rule 4(c)(1) and
    (2).
      Note to Subdivision (c). The amendment of subdivision (c)
    conforms Rule 9 to the comparable provisions in Rules 4(d)(4) and
    5(a) concerning return of the warrant.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This subdivision, incorrect in its
    present form in light of the recent amendment of 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3401(a), has been abrogated as unnecessary in light of the change
    to subdivision (a).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 9 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Rule 9 has been changed to reflect its relationship to Rule 4
    procedures for obtaining an arrest warrant or summons. Thus, rather
    than simply repeating material that is already located in Rule 4,
    the Committee determined that where appropriate, Rule 9 should
    simply direct the reader to the procedures specified in Rule 4.
      Rule 9(a) has been amended to permit a judge discretion whether
    to issue an arrest warrant when a defendant fails to respond to a
    summons on a complaint. Under the current language of the rule, if
    the defendant fails to appear, the judge must issue a warrant.
    Under the amended version, if the defendant fails to appear and the
    government requests that a warrant be issued, the judge must issue
    one. In the absence of such a request, the judge has the discretion
    to do so. This change mirrors language in amended Rule 4(a).
      A second amendment has been made in Rule 9(b)(1). The rule has
    been amended to delete language permitting the court to set the
    amount of bail on the warrant. The Committee believes that this
    language is inconsistent with the 1984 Bail Reform Act. See United
    States v. Thomas, 992 F. Supp. 782 (D.V.I. 1998) (bail amount
    endorsed on warrant that has not been determined in proceedings
    conducted under Bail Reform Act has no bearing on decision by judge
    conducting Rule 40 hearing).
      The language in current Rule 9(c)(1), concerning service of a
    summons on an organization, has been moved to Rule 4.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (d). Rule 9(d) authorizes a court to issue an arrest
    warrant or summons electronically on the return of an indictment or
    the filing of an information. In large judicial districts the need
    to travel to the courthouse to obtain an arrest warrant in person
    can be burdensome, and advances in technology make the secure
    transmission of a reliable version of the warrant or summons
    possible. This change works in conjunction with the amendment to
    Rule 6 that permits the electronic return of an indictment, which
    similarly eliminates the need to travel to the courthouse.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the amendment as published.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Subd. (a). Pub. L. 94-64 amended subd. (a) generally.
      Subd. (b)(1). Pub. L. 94-149 substituted reference to "rule
    4(c)(1)" for "rule 4(b)(1)".
      Subd. (c)(1). Pub. L. 94-149 substituted reference to "rule
    4(d)(1), (2), and (3)" for "rule 4(c)(1), (2), and (3)".

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND
      PREPARATION FOR TRIAL                                01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
              TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL          

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 10                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 10. Arraignment

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. An arraignment must be conducted in open court
    and must consist of:
        (1) ensuring that the defendant has a copy of the indictment or
      information;
        (2) reading the indictment or information to the defendant or
      stating to the defendant the substance of the charge; and then
        (3) asking the defendant to plead to the indictment or
      information.

      (b) Waiving Appearance. A defendant need not be present for the
    arraignment if:
        (1) the defendant has been charged by indictment or misdemeanor
      information;
        (2) the defendant, in a written waiver signed by both the
      defendant and defense counsel, has waived appearance and has
      affirmed that the defendant received a copy of the indictment or
      information and that the plea is not guilty; and
        (3) the court accepts the waiver.

      (c) Video Teleconferencing. Video teleconferencing may be used to
    arraign a defendant if the defendant consents.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. The first sentence states the prevailing practice.
      2. The requirement that the defendant shall be given a copy of
    the indictment or information before he is called upon to plead,
    contained in the second sentence, is new.
      3. Failure to comply with arraignment requirements has been held
    not to be jurisdictional, but a mere technical irregularity not
    warranting a reversal of a conviction, if not raised before trial,
    Garland v. State of Washington, 232 U.S. 642.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 10 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Read together, Rules 10 and 43 require the defendant to be
    physically present in court for the arraignment. See, e.g.,
    Valenzuela-Gonzales v. United States, 915 F.2d 1276, 1280 (9th Cir.
    1990) (Rules 10 and 43 are broader in protection than the
    Constitution). The amendments to Rule 10 create two exceptions to
    that requirement. The first provides that the court may hold an
    arraignment in the defendant's absence when the defendant has
    waived the right to be present in writing and the court consents to
    that waiver. The second permits the court to hold arraignments by
    video teleconferencing when the defendant is at a different
    location. A conforming amendment has also been made to Rule 43.
      In amending Rule 10 and Rule 43, the Committee was concerned that
    permitting a defendant to be absent from the arraignment could be
    viewed as an erosion of an important element of the judicial
    process. First, it may be important for a defendant to see and
    experience first-hand the formal impact of the reading of the
    charge. Second, it may be necessary for the court to personally see
    and speak with the defendant at the arraignment, especially when
    there is a real question whether the defendant actually understands
    the gravity of the proceedings. And third, there may be
    difficulties in providing the defendant with effective and
    confidential assistance of counsel if counsel, but not the
    defendant, appears at the arraignment.
      The Committee nonetheless believed that in appropriate
    circumstances the court, and the defendant, should have the option
    of conducting the arraignment in the defendant's absence. The
    question of when it would be appropriate for a defendant to waive
    an appearance is not spelled out in the rule. That is left to the
    defendant and the court in each case.
      A critical element to the amendment is that no matter how
    convenient or cost effective a defendant's absence might be, the
    defendant's right to be present in court stands unless he or she
    waives that right in writing. Under the amendment, both the
    defendant and the defendant's attorney must sign the waiver.
    Further, the amendment requires that the waiver specifically state
    that the defendant has received a copy of the charging instrument.
      If the trial court has reason to believe that in a particular
    case the defendant should not be permitted to waive the right, the
    court may reject the waiver and require that the defendant actually
    appear in court. That might be particularly appropriate when the
    court wishes to discuss substantive or procedural matters in
    conjunction with the arraignment and the court believes that the
    defendant's presence is important in resolving those matters. It
    might also be appropriate to reject a requested waiver where an
    attorney for the government presents reasons for requiring the
    defendant to appear personally.
      The amendment does not permit waiver of an appearance when the
    defendant is charged with a felony information. In that instance,
    the defendant is required by Rule 7(b) to be present in court to
    waive the indictment. Nor does the amendment permit a waiver of
    appearance when the defendant is standing mute (see Rule 11(a)(4)),
    or entering a conditional plea (see Rule 11(a)(2)), a nolo
    contendere plea (see Rule 11(a)(3)), or a guilty plea (see Rule
    11(a)(1)). In each of those instances the Committee believed that
    it was more appropriate for the defendant to appear personally
    before the court.
      It is important to note that the amendment does not permit the
    defendant to waive the arraignment itself, which may be a
    triggering mechanism for other rules.
      Rule 10(c) addresses the second substantive change in the rule.
    That provision permits the court to conduct arraignments through
    video teleconferencing, if the defendant waives the right to be
    arraigned in court. Although the practice is now used in state
    courts and in some federal courts, Rules 10 and 43 have generally
    prevented federal courts from using that method for arraignments in
    criminal cases. See, e.g., Valenzuela-Gonzales v. United States,
    supra (Rules 10 and 43 mandate physical presence of defendant at
    arraignment and that arraignment take place in open court). A
    similar amendment was proposed by the Committee in 1993 and
    published for public comment. The amendment was later withdrawn
    from consideration in order to consider the results of several
    planned pilot programs. Upon further consideration, the Committee
    believed that the benefits of using video teleconferencing
    outweighed the costs of doing so. This amendment also parallels an
    amendment in Rule 5(f) that would permit initial appearances to be
    conducted by video teleconferencing.
      In amending Rules 5, 10, and 43 (which generally requires the
    defendant's presence at all proceedings), the Committee carefully
    considered the argument that permitting a defendant to appear by
    video teleconferencing might be considered an erosion of an
    important element of the judicial process. Much can be lost when
    video teleconferencing occurs. First, the setting itself may not
    promote the public's confidence in the integrity and solemnity of a
    federal criminal proceeding; that is the view of some who have
    witnessed the use of such proceedings in some state jurisdictions.
    While it is difficult to quantify the intangible benefits and
    impact of requiring a defendant to be brought before a federal
    judicial officer in a federal courtroom, the Committee realizes
    that something is lost when a defendant is not required to make a
    personal appearance. A related consideration is that the defendant
    may be located in a room that bears no resemblance whatsoever to a
    judicial forum and the equipment may be inadequate for high-quality
    transmissions. Second, using video teleconferencing can interfere
    with counsel's ability to meet personally with his or her client at
    what, at least in that jurisdiction, might be an important
    appearance before a magistrate judge. Third, the defendant may miss
    an opportunity to meet with family or friends, and others who might
    be able to assist the defendant, especially in any attempts to
    obtain bail. Finally, the magistrate judge may miss an opportunity
    to accurately assess the physical, emotional, and mental condition
    of a defendant - a factor that may weigh on pretrial decisions,
    such as release from detention.
      On the other hand, the Committee considered that in some
    jurisdictions, the courts face a high volume of criminal
    proceedings. The Committee was also persuaded to adopt the
    amendment because in some jurisdictions delays may occur in travel
    time from one location to another - in some cases requiring either
    the magistrate judge or the participants to travel long distances.
    In those instances, it is not unusual for a defense counsel to
    recognize the benefit of conducting a video teleconferenced
    proceeding, which will eliminate lengthy and sometimes expensive
    travel or permit the arraignment to be conducted much sooner.
    Finally, the Committee was aware that in some jurisdictions,
    courtrooms now contain high quality technology for conducting such
    procedures, and that some courts are already using video
    teleconferencing - with the consent of the parties.
      The Committee believed that, on balance and in appropriate
    circumstances, the court and the defendant should have the option
    of using video teleconferencing for arraignments, as long as the
    defendant consents to that procedure. The question of when it would
    be appropriate for a defendant to consent is not spelled out in the
    rule. That is left to the defendant and the court in each case.
    Although the rule does not specify any particular technical
    requirements regarding the system to be used, if the equipment or
    technology is deficient, the public may lose confidence in the
    integrity and dignity of the proceedings.
      The amendment does not require a court to adopt or use video
    teleconferencing. In deciding whether to use such procedures, a
    court may wish to consider establishing clearly articulated
    standards and procedures. For example, the court would normally
    want to insure that the location used for televising the video
    teleconferencing is conducive to the solemnity of a federal
    criminal proceeding. That might require additional coordination,
    for example, with the detention facility to insure that the room,
    furniture, and furnishings reflect the dignity associated with a
    federal courtroom. Provision should also be made to insure that the
    judge, or a surrogate, is in a position to carefully assess the
    condition of the defendant. And the court should also consider
    establishing procedures for insuring that counsel and the defendant
    (and even the defendant's immediate family) are provided an ample
    opportunity to confer in private.
      Although the rule requires the defendant to waive a personal
    appearance for an arraignment, the rule does not require that the
    waiver for video teleconferencing be in writing. Nor does it
    require that the defendant waive that appearance in person, in open
    court. It would normally be sufficient for the defendant to waive
    an appearance while participating through a video teleconference.
      The amendment leaves to the courts the decision first, whether to
    permit video arraignments, and second, the procedures to be used.
    The Committee was satisfied that the technology has progressed to
    the point that video teleconferencing can address the concerns
    raised in the past about the ability of the court and the defendant
    to see each other and for the defendant and counsel to be in
    contact with each other, either at the same location or by a secure
    remote connection.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 11                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 11. Pleas

-STATUTE-
      (a) Entering a Plea.
        (1) In General. A defendant may plead not guilty, guilty, or
      (with the court's consent) nolo contendere.
        (2) Conditional Plea. With the consent of the court and the
      government, a defendant may enter a conditional plea of guilty or
      nolo contendere, reserving in writing the right to have an
      appellate court review an adverse determination of a specified
      pretrial motion. A defendant who prevails on appeal may then
      withdraw the plea.
        (3) Nolo Contendere Plea. Before accepting a plea of nolo
      contendere, the court must consider the parties' views and the
      public interest in the effective administration of justice.
        (4) Failure to Enter a Plea. If a defendant refuses to enter a
      plea or if a defendant organization fails to appear, the court
      must enter a plea of not guilty.

      (b) Considering and Accepting a Guilty or Nolo Contendere Plea.
        (1) Advising and Questioning the Defendant. Before the court
      accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the defendant may be
      placed under oath, and the court must address the defendant
      personally in open court. During this address, the court must
      inform the defendant of, and determine that the defendant
      understands, the following:
          (A) the government's right, in a prosecution for perjury or
        false statement, to use against the defendant any statement
        that the defendant gives under oath;
          (B) the right to plead not guilty, or having already so
        pleaded, to persist in that plea;
          (C) the right to a jury trial;
          (D) the right to be represented by counsel - and if necessary
        have the court appoint counsel - at trial and at every other
        stage of the proceeding;
          (E) the right at trial to confront and cross-examine adverse
        witnesses, to be protected from compelled self-incrimination,
        to testify and present evidence, and to compel the attendance
        of witnesses;
          (F) the defendant's waiver of these trial rights if the court
        accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere;
          (G) the nature of each charge to which the defendant is
        pleading;
          (H) any maximum possible penalty, including imprisonment,
        fine, and term of supervised release;
          (I) any mandatory minimum penalty;
          (J) any applicable forfeiture;
          (K) the court's authority to order restitution;
          (L) the court's obligation to impose a special assessment;
          (M) in determining a sentence, the court's obligation to
        calculate the applicable sentencing-guideline range and to
        consider that range, possible departures under the Sentencing
        Guidelines, and other sentencing factors under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
        3553(a); and
          (N) the terms of any plea-agreement provision waiving the
        right to appeal or to collaterally attack the sentence.

        (2) Ensuring That a Plea Is Voluntary. Before accepting a plea
      of guilty or nolo contendere, the court must address the
      defendant personally in open court and determine that the plea is
      voluntary and did not result from force, threats, or promises
      (other than promises in a plea agreement).
        (3) Determining the Factual Basis for a Plea. Before entering
      judgment on a guilty plea, the court must determine that there is
      a factual basis for the plea.

      (c) Plea Agreement Procedure.
        (1) In General. An attorney for the government and the
      defendant's attorney, or the defendant when proceeding pro se,
      may discuss and reach a plea agreement. The court must not
      participate in these discussions. If the defendant pleads guilty
      or nolo contendere to either a charged offense or a lesser or
      related offense, the plea agreement may specify that an attorney
      for the government will:
          (A) not bring, or will move to dismiss, other charges;
          (B) recommend, or agree not to oppose the defendant's
        request, that a particular sentence or sentencing range is
        appropriate or that a particular provision of the Sentencing
        Guidelines, or policy statement, or sentencing factor does or
        does not apply (such a recommendation or request does not bind
        the court); or
          (C) agree that a specific sentence or sentencing range is the
        appropriate disposition of the case, or that a particular
        provision of the Sentencing Guidelines, or policy statement, or
        sentencing factor does or does not apply (such a recommendation
        or request binds the court once the court accepts the plea
        agreement).

        (2) Disclosing a Plea Agreement. The parties must disclose the
      plea agreement in open court when the plea is offered, unless the
      court for good cause allows the parties to disclose the plea
      agreement in camera.
        (3) Judicial Consideration of a Plea Agreement.
          (A) To the extent the plea agreement is of the type specified
        in Rule 11(c)(1)(A) or (C), the court may accept the agreement,
        reject it, or defer a decision until the court has reviewed the
        presentence report.
          (B) To the extent the plea agreement is of the type specified
        in Rule 11(c)(1)(B), the court must advise the defendant that
        the defendant has no right to withdraw the plea if the court
        does not follow the recommendation or request.

        (4) Accepting a Plea Agreement. If the court accepts the plea
      agreement, it must inform the defendant that to the extent the
      plea agreement is of the type specified in Rule 11(c)(1)(A) or
      (C), the agreed disposition will be included in the judgment.
        (5) Rejecting a Plea Agreement. If the court rejects a plea
      agreement containing provisions of the type specified in Rule
      11(c)(1)(A) or (C), the court must do the following on the record
      and in open court (or, for good cause, in camera):
          (A) inform the parties that the court rejects the plea
        agreement;
          (B) advise the defendant personally that the court is not
        required to follow the plea agreement and give the defendant an
        opportunity to withdraw the plea; and
          (C) advise the defendant personally that if the plea is not
        withdrawn, the court may dispose of the case less favorably
        toward the defendant than the plea agreement contemplated.

      (d) Withdrawing a Guilty or Nolo Contendere Plea. A defendant may
    withdraw a plea of guilty or nolo contendere:
        (1) before the court accepts the plea, for any reason or no
      reason; or
        (2) after the court accepts the plea, but before it imposes
      sentence if:
          (A) the court rejects a plea agreement under Rule 11(c)(5);
        or
          (B) the defendant can show a fair and just reason for
        requesting the withdrawal.

      (e) Finality of a Guilty or Nolo Contendere Plea. After the court
    imposes sentence, the defendant may not withdraw a plea of guilty
    or nolo contendere, and the plea may be set aside only on direct
    appeal or collateral attack.
      (f) Admissibility or Inadmissibility of a Plea, Plea Discussions,
    and Related Statements. The admissibility or inadmissibility of a
    plea, a plea discussion, and any related statement is governed by
    Federal Rule of Evidence 410.
      (g) Recording the Proceedings. The proceedings during which the
    defendant enters a plea must be recorded by a court reporter or by
    a suitable recording device. If there is a guilty plea or a nolo
    contendere plea, the record must include the inquiries and advice
    to the defendant required under Rule 11(b) and (c).
      (h) Harmless Error. A variance from the requirements of this rule
    is harmless error if it does not affect substantial rights.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 22, 1974, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 3(5)-(10), July 31, 1975, 89
    Stat. 371, 372; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Aug. 1, 1979, and Dec. 1, 1980;
    Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1, 1982; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1, 1983;
    Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987;
    Pub. L. 100-690, title VII, Sec. 7076, Nov. 18, 1988, 102 Stat.
    4406; Apr. 25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; Apr. 26, 1999, eff. Dec. 1,
    1999; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1,
    2007.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule is substantially a restatement of existing law and
    practice, 18 U.S.C. [former] 564 (Standing mute); Fogus v. United
    States, 34 F.2d 97 (C.C.A. 4th) (duty of court to ascertain that
    plea of guilty is intelligently and voluntarily made).
      2. The plea of nolo contendere has always existed in the Federal
    courts, Hudson v. United States, 272 U.S. 451; United States v.
    Norris, 281 U.S. 619. The use of the plea is recognized by the
    Probation Act, 18 U.S.C. 724 [now 3651]. While at times criticized
    as theoretically lacking in logical basis, experience has shown
    that it performs a useful function from a practical standpoint.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The great majority of all defendants against whom indictments or
    informations are filed in the federal courts plead guilty. Only a
    comparatively small number go to trial. See United States Attorneys
    Statistical Report, Fiscal Year 1964, p. 1. The fairness and
    adequacy of the procedures on acceptance of pleas of guilty are of
    vital importance in according equal justice to all in the federal
    courts.
      Three changes are made in the second sentence. The first change
    makes it clear that before accepting either a plea of guilty or
    nolo contendere the court must determine that the plea is made
    voluntarily with understanding of the nature of the charge. The
    second change expressly requires the court to address the defendant
    personally in the course of determining that the plea is made
    voluntarily and with understanding of the nature of the charge. The
    reported cases reflect some confusion over this matter. Compare
    United States v. Diggs, 304 F.2d 929 (6th Cir. 1962); Domenica v.
    United States, 292 F.2d 483 (1st Cir. 1961); Gundlach v. United
    States, 262 F.2d 72 (4th Cir. 1958), cert. den., 360 U.S. 904
    (1959); and Julian v. United States, 236 F.2d 155 (6th Cir. 1956),
    which contain the implication that personal interrogation of the
    defendant is the better practice even when he is represented by
    counsel, with Meeks v. United States, 298 F.2d 204 (5th Cir. 1962);
    Nunley v. United States, 294 F.2d 579 (10th Cir. 1961), cert. den.,
    368 U.S. 991 (1962); and United States v. Von der Heide, 169
    F.Supp. 560 (D.D.C. 1959).
      The third change in the second sentence adds the words "and the
    consequences of his plea" to state what clearly is the law. See,
    e.g., Von Moltke v. Gillies, 332 U.S. 708, 724 (1948); Kercheval v.
    United States, 274 U.S. 220, 223 (1927); Munich v. United States,
    337 F.2d 356 (9th Cir. 1964); Pilkington v. United States, 315 F.2d
    204 (4th Cir. 1963); Smith v. United States, 324 F.2d 436 (D.C.
    Cir. 1963); but cf. Marvel v. United States, 335 F.2d 101 (5th Cir.
    1964).
      A new sentence is added at the end of the rule to impose a duty
    on the court in cases where the defendant pleads guilty to satisfy
    itself that there is a factual basis for the plea before entering
    judgment. The court should satisfy itself, by inquiry of the
    defendant or the attorney for the government, or by examining the
    presentence report, or otherwise, that the conduct which the
    defendant admits constitutes the offense charged in the indictment
    or information or an offense included therein to which the
    defendant has pleaded guilty. Such inquiry should, e.g., protect a
    defendant who is in the position of pleading voluntarily with an
    understanding of the nature of the charge but without realizing
    that his conduct does not actually fall within the charge. For a
    similar requirement see Mich. Stat. Ann. Sec. 28.1058 (1954); Mich.
    Sup. Ct. Rule 35A; In re Valle, 364 Mich. 471, 110 N.W.2d 673
    (1961); People v. Barrows, 358 Mich. 267, 99 N.W.2d 347 (1959);
    People v. Bumpus, 355 Mich. 374, 94 N.W.2d 854 (1959); People v.
    Coates, 337 Mich. 56, 59 N.W.2d 83 (1953). See also Stinson v.
    United States, 316 F.2d 554 (5th Cir. 1963). The normal consequence
    of a determination that there is not a factual basis for the plea
    would be for the court to set aside the plea and enter a plea of
    not guilty.
      For a variety of reasons it is desirable in some cases to permit
    entry of judgment upon a plea of nolo contendere without inquiry
    into the factual basis for the plea. The new third sentence is not,
    therefore, made applicable to pleas of nolo contendere. It is not
    intended by this omission to reflect any view upon the effect of a
    plea of nolo contendere in relation to a plea of guilty. That
    problem has been dealt with by the courts. See e.g., Lott v. United
    States, 367 U.S. 421, 426 (1961).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments to rule 11 are designed to achieve two principal
    objectives:
      (1) Subdivision (c) prescribes the advice which the court must
    give to insure that the defendant who pleads guilty has made an
    informed plea.
      (2) Subdivision (e) provides a plea agreement procedure designed
    to give recognition to the propriety of plea discussions; to bring
    the existence of a plea agreement out into the open in court; and
    to provide methods for court acceptance or rejection of a plea
    agreement.
      Other less basic changes are also made. The changes are discussed
    in the order in which they appear in the rule.
      Subdivision (b) retains the requirement that the defendant obtain
    the consent of the court in order to plead nolo contendere. It adds
    that the court shall, in deciding whether to accept the plea,
    consider the views of the prosecution and of the defense and also
    the larger public interest in the administration of criminal
    justice.
      Although the plea of nolo contendere has long existed in the
    federal courts, Hudson v. United States, 272 U.S. 451, 47 S.Ct.
    127, 71 L.Ed. 347 (1926), the desirability of the plea has been a
    subject of disagreement. Compare Lane-Reticker, Nolo Contendere in
    North Carolina, 34 N.C.L.Rev. 280, 290-291 (1956), with Note. The
    Nature and Consequences of the Plea of Nolo Contendere, 33
    Neb.L.Rev. 428, 434 (1954), favoring the plea. The American Bar
    Association Project on Standards for Criminal Justice takes the
    position that "the case for the nolo plea is not strong enough to
    justify a minimum standard supporting its use," but because "use of
    the plea contributes in some degree to the avoidance of unnecessary
    trials" it does not proscribe use of the plea. ABA, Standards
    Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.1(a) Commentary at 16 (Approved
    Draft, 1968).
      A plea of nolo contendere is, for purposes of punishment, the
    same as the plea of guilty. See discussion of the history of the
    nolo plea in North Carolina v. Alford, 400 U.S. 25, 35-36 n. 8, 91
    S.Ct. 160, 27 L.Ed.2d 162 (1970). Note, The Nature and Consequences
    of the Plea of Nolo Contendere, 33 Neb.L.Rev. 428, 430 (1954). A
    judgment upon the plea is a conviction and may be used to apply
    multiple offender statutes. Lenvin and Meyers, Nolo Contendere: Its
    Nature and Implications, 51 Yale L.J. 1255, 1265 (1942). Unlike a
    plea of guilty, however, it cannot be used against a defendant as
    an admission in a subsequent criminal or civil case. 4 Wigmore Sec.
    1066(4), at 58 (3d ed. 1940, Supp. 1970); Rules of Evidence for
    United States Courts and Magistrates, rule 803(22) (Nov. 1971). See
    Lenvin and Meyers, Nolo Contendere: Its Nature and Implications, 51
    Yale L.J. 1255 (1942); ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty
    Secs. 1.1(a) and (b), Commentary at 15-18 (Approved Draft, 1968).
      The factors considered relevant by particular courts in
    determining whether to permit the plea of nolo contendere vary.
    Compare United States v. Bagliore, 182 F.Supp. 714, 716 (E.D.N.Y.
    1960), where the view is taken that the plea should be rejected
    unless a compelling reason for acceptance is established, with
    United States v. Jones, 119 F.Supp. 288, 290 (S.D.Cal. 1954), where
    the view is taken that the plea should be accepted in the absence
    of a compelling reason to the contrary.
      A defendant who desires to plead nolo contendere will commonly
    want to avoid pleading guilty because the plea of guilty can be
    introduced as an admission in subsequent civil litigation. The
    prosecution may oppose the plea of nolo contendere because it wants
    a definite resolution of the defendant's guilty or innocence either
    for correctional purposes or for reasons of subsequent litigation.
    ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.1(b) Commentary at
    16-18 (Approved Draft, 1968). Under subdivision (b) of the new rule
    the balancing of the interests is left to the trial judge, who is
    mandated to take into account the larger public interest in the
    effective administration of justice.
      Subdivision (c) prescribes the advice which the court must give
    to the defendant as a prerequisite to the acceptance of a plea of
    guilty. The former rule required that the court determine that the
    plea was made with "understanding of the nature of the charge and
    the consequences of the plea." The amendment identifies more
    specifically what must be explained to the defendant and also
    codifies, in the rule, the requirements of Boykin v. Alabama, 395
    U.S. 238, 89 S.Ct. 1709, 23 L.Ed.2d 274 (1969), which held that a
    defendant must be apprised of the fact that he relinquishes certain
    constitutional rights by pleading guilty.
      Subdivision (c) retains the requirement that the court address
    the defendant personally. See McCarthy v. United States, 394 U.S.
    459, 466, 89 S.Ct. 1166, 22 L.Ed.2d 418 (1969). There is also an
    amendment to rule 43 to make clear that a defendant must be in
    court at the time of the plea.
      Subdivision (c)(1) retains the current requirement that the court
    determine that the defendant understands the nature of the charge.
    This is a common requirement. See ABA Standards Relating to Pleas
    of Guilty Sec. 1.4(a) (Approved Draft, 1968); Illinois Supreme
    Court Rule 402(a)(1) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec.
    402(a)(1). The method by which the defendant's understanding of the
    nature of the charge is determined may vary from case to case,
    depending on the complexity of the circumstances and the particular
    defendant. In some cases, a judge may do this by reading the
    indictment and by explaining the elements of the offense to the
    defendants. Thompson, The Judge's Responsibility on a Plea of
    Guilty 62 W.Va.L.Rev. 213, 220 (1960); Resolution of Judges of U.S.
    District Court for D.C., June 24, 1959.
      Former rule 11 required the court to inform the defendant of the
    "consequences of the plea." Subdivision (c)(2) changes this and
    requires instead that the court inform the defendant of and
    determine that he understands "the mandatory minimum penalty
    provided by law, if any, and the maximum possible penalty provided
    by law for the offense to which the plea is offered." The objective
    is to insure that a defendant knows what minimum sentence the judge
    must impose and what maximum sentence the judge may impose. This
    information is usually readily ascertainable from the face of the
    statute defining the crime, and thus it is feasible for the judge
    to know specifically what to tell the defendant. Giving this advice
    tells a defendant the shortest mandatory sentence and also the
    longest possible sentence for the offense to which he is pleading
    guilty.
      It has been suggested that it is desirable to inform a defendant
    of additional consequences which might follow from his plea of
    guilty. Durant v. United States, 410 F.2d 689 (1st Cir. 1969), held
    that a defendant must be informed of his ineligibility for parole.
    Trujillo v. United States, 377 F.2d 266 (5th Cir. 1967), cert.
    denied 389 U.S. 899, 88 S.Ct. 224, 19 L.Ed.2d 221 (1967), held that
    advice about eligibility for parole is not required. It has been
    suggested that a defendant be advised that a jury might find him
    guilty only of a lesser included offense. C. Wright, Federal
    Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 173 at 374 (1969). See contra
    Dorrough v. United States, 385 F.2d 887 (5th Cir. 1967). The ABA
    Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.4(c)(iii) (Approved
    Draft, 1968) recommend that the defendant be informed that he may
    be subject to additional punishment if the offense charged is one
    for which a different or additional punishment is authorized by
    reason of the defendant's previous conviction.
      Under the rule the judge is not required to inform a defendant
    about these matters, though a judge is free to do so if he feels a
    consequence of a plea of guilty in a particular case is likely to
    be of real significance to the defendant. Currently, certain
    consequences of a plea of guilty, such as parole eligibility, may
    be so complicated that it is not feasible to expect a judge to
    clearly advise the defendant. For example, the judge may impose a
    sentence under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4202 making the defendant eligible
    for parole when he has served one third of the judicially imposed
    maximum; or, under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4208(a)(1), making parole
    eligibility after a specified period of time less than one third of
    the maximum; or, under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4208(a)(2), leaving
    eligibility to the discretion of the parole board. At the time the
    judge is required to advise the defendant of the consequences of
    his plea, the judge will usually not have seen the presentence
    report and thus will have no basis for giving a defendant any very
    realistic advice as to when he might be eligible for parole.
    Similar complications exist with regard to other, particularly
    collateral, consequences of a plea of guilty in a given case.
      Subdivisions (c)(3) and (4) specify the constitutional rights
    that the defendant waives by a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
    These subdivisions are designed to satisfy the requirements of
    understanding waiver set forth in Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U.S. 238,
    89 S.Ct. 1709, 23 L.Ed.2d 274 (1969). Subdivision (c)(3) is
    intended to require that the judge inform the defendant and
    determine that he understands that he waives his fifth amendment
    rights. The rule takes the position that the defendant's right not
    to incriminate himself is best explained in terms of his right to
    plead not guilty and to persist in that plea if it has already been
    made. This is language identical to that adopted in Illinois for
    the same purpose. See Illinois Supreme Court Rule 402(a)(3) (1970),
    Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec. 402(a)(3).
      Subdivision (c)(4) assumes that a defendant's right to have his
    guilt proved beyond a reasonable doubt and the right to confront
    his accusers are best explained by indicating that the right to
    trial is waived. Specifying that there will be no future trial of
    any kind makes this fact clear to those defendants who, though
    knowing they have waived trial by jury, are under the mistaken
    impression that some kind of trial will follow. Illinois has
    recently adopted similar language. Illinois Supreme Court Rule
    402(a)(4) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec. 402(a)(4). In
    explaining to a defendant that he waives his right to trial, the
    judge may want to explain some of the aspects of trial such as the
    right to confront witnesses, to subpoena witnesses, to testify in
    his own behalf, or, if he chooses, not to testify. What is
    required, in this respect, to conform to Boykin is left to future
    case-law development.
      Subdivision (d) retains the requirement that the court determine
    that a plea of guilty or nolo contendere is voluntary before
    accepting it. It adds the requirement that the court also inquire
    whether the defendant's willingness to plead guilty or nolo
    contendere results from prior plea discussions between the attorney
    for the government and the defendant or his attorney. See
    Santobello v. New York, 404 U.S. 257, 261-262, 92 S.Ct. 495, 30
    L.Ed.2d 427 (1971): "The plea must, of course, be voluntary and
    knowing and if it was induced by promises, the essence of those
    promises must in some way be made known." Subdivisions (d) and (e)
    afford the court adequate basis for rejecting an improper plea
    agreement induced by threats or inappropriate promises.
      The new rule specifies that the court personally address the
    defendant in determining the voluntariness of the plea.
      By personally interrogating the defendant, not only will the
    judge be better able to ascertain the plea's voluntariness, but he
    will also develop a more complete record to support his
    determination in a subsequent post-conviction attack. * * * Both of
    these goals are undermined in proportion to the degree the district
    judge resorts to "assumptions" not based upon recorded responses to
    his inquiries. McCarthy v. United States, 394 U.S. 459, 466, 467,
    89 S.Ct. 1166, 22 L.Ed.2d 418 (1969).
      Subdivision (e) provides a plea agreement procedure. In doing so
    it gives recognition to the propriety of plea discussions and plea
    agreements provided that they are disclosed in open court and
    subject to acceptance or rejection by the trial judge.
      Although reliable statistical information is limited, one recent
    estimate indicated that guilty pleas account for the disposition of
    as many as 95% of all criminal cases. ABA Standards Relating to
    Pleas of Guilty, pp. 1-2 (Approved Draft, 1968). A substantial
    number of these are the result of plea discussions. The President's
    Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice, Task
    Force Report: The Courts 9 (1967); D. Newman, Conviction: The
    Determination of Guilt or Innocence Without Trial 3 (1966); L.
    Weinreb, Criminal Process 437 (1969); Note, Guilty Plea Bargaining:
    Compromises by Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev.
    865 (1964).
      There is increasing acknowledgement of both the inevitability and
    the propriety of plea agreements. See, e.g., ABA Standards Relating
    to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.1 (Approved Draft, 1968); Illinois
    Supreme Court Rule 402 (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec.
    402.
      In Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742, 752-753, 90 S.Ct. 1463,
    25 L.Ed.2d 747 (1970), the court said:
      Of course, that the prevalence of guilty pleas is explainable
    does not necessarily validate those pleas or the system which
    produces them. But we cannot hold that it is unconstitutional for
    the State to extend a benefit to a defendant who in turn extends a
    substantial benefit to the State and who demonstrates by his plea
    that he is ready and willing to admit his crime and to enter the
    correctional system in a frame of mind that affords hope for
    success in rehabilitation over a shorter period of time than might
    otherwise be necessary.
      In Santobello v. New York, 404 U.S. 257, 260, 92 S.Ct. 495, 498,
    30 L.Ed.2d 427 (1971), the court said:
      The disposition of criminal charges by agreement between the
    prosecutor and the accused, sometimes loosely called "plea
    bargaining," is an essential component of the administration of
    justice. Properly administered, it is to be encouraged.
      Administratively, the criminal justice system has come to depend
    upon pleas of guilty and, hence, upon plea discussions. See, e.g.,
    President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of
    Justice, Task Force Report. The Courts 9 (1967); Note, Guilty Plea
    Bargaining: Compromises By Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112
    U.Pa.L.Rev. 865 (1964). But expediency is not the basis for
    recognizing the propriety of a plea agreement practice. Properly
    implemented, a plea agreement procedure is consistent with both
    effective and just administration of the criminal law. Santobello
    v. New York, 404 U.S. 257, 92 S.Ct. 495, 30 L.Ed.2d 427. This is
    the conclusion reached in the ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of
    Guilty Sec. 1.8 (Approved Draft, 1968); the ABA Standards Relating
    to The Prosecution Function and The Defense Function pp. 243-253
    (Approved Draft, 1971); and the ABA Standards Relating to the
    Function of the Trial Judge, Sec. 4.1 (App.Draft, 1972). The
    Supreme Court of California recently recognized the propriety of
    plea bargaining. See People v. West, 3 Cal.3d 595, 91 Cal.Rptr.
    385, 477 P.2d 409 (1970). A plea agreement procedure has recently
    been decided in the District of Columbia Court of General Sessions
    upon the recommendation of the United States Attorney. See 51
    F.R.D. 109 (1971).
      Where the defendant by his plea aids in insuring prompt and
    certain application of correctional measures, the proper ends of
    the criminal justice system are furthered because swift and certain
    punishment serves the ends of both general deterrence and the
    rehabilitation of the individual defendant. Cf. Note, The Influence
    of the Defendant's Plea on Judicial Determination of Sentence, 66
    Yale L.J. 204, 211 (1956). Where the defendant has acknowledged his
    guilt and shown a willingness to assume responsibility for his
    conduct, it has been thought proper to recognize this in
    sentencing. See also ALI, Model Penal Code Sec. 7.01 (P.O.D. 1962);
    NPPA Guides for Sentencing (1957). Granting a charge reduction in
    return for a plea of guilty may give the sentencing judge needed
    discretion, particularly where the facts of a case do not warrant
    the harsh consequences of a long mandatory sentence or collateral
    consequences which are unduly severe. A plea of guilty avoids the
    necessity of a public trial and may protect the innocent victim of
    a crime against the trauma of direct and cross-examination.
      Finally, a plea agreement may also contribute to the successful
    prosecution of other more serious offenders. See D. Newman,
    Conviction: The Determination of Guilt or Innocence Without Trial,
    chs. 2 and 3 (1966); Note, Guilty Plea Bargaining: Compromises By
    Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev. 865, 881
    (1964).
      Where plea discussions and agreements are viewed as proper, it is
    generally agreed that it is preferable that the fact of the plea
    agreement be disclosed in open court and its propriety be reviewed
    by the trial judge.
      We have previously recognized plea bargaining as an ineradicable
    fact. Failure to recognize it tends not to destroy it but to drive
    it underground. We reiterate what we have said before: that when
    plea bargaining occurs it ought to be spread on the record [The
    Bench Book prepared by the Federal Judicial Center for use by
    United States District Judges now suggests that the defendant be
    asked by the court "if he believes there is any understanding or if
    any predictions have been made to him concerning the sentence he
    will receive." Bench Book for United States District Judges,
    Federal Judicial Center (1969) at 1.05.3.] and publicly disclosed.
    United States v. Williams, 407 F.2d 940 (4th Cir. 1969). * * * In
    the future we think that the district judges should not only make
    the general inquiry under Rule 11 as to whether the plea of guilty
    has been coerced or induced by promises, but should specifically
    inquire of counsel whether plea bargaining has occurred. Logically
    the general inquiry should elicit information about plea
    bargaining, but it seldom has in the past. Raines v. United States,
    423 F.2d 526, 530 (4th Cir. 1970).
      In the past, plea discussions and agreements have occurred in an
    informal and largely invisible manner. Enker, Perspectives on Plea
    Bargaining, in President's Commission on Law Enforcement and
    Administration of Justice, Task Force Report: The Courts 108, 115
    (1967). There has often been a ritual of denial that any promises
    have been made, a ritual in which judges, prosecutors, and defense
    counsel have participated. ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of
    Guilty Sec. 3.1, Commentary at 60-69 (Approved Draft 1968); Task
    Force Report: The Courts 9. Consequently, there has been a lack of
    effective judicial review of the propriety of the agreements, thus
    increasing the risk of real or apparent unfairness. See ABA
    Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.1, Commentary at 60 et
    seq.; Task Force Report: The Courts 9-13.
      The procedure described in subdivision (e) is designed to prevent
    abuse of plea discussions and agreements by providing appropriate
    and adequate safeguards.
      Subdivision (e)(1) specifies that the "attorney for the
    government and the attorney for the defendant or the defendant when
    acting pro se may" participate in plea discussions. The inclusion
    of "the defendant when acting pro se" is intended to reflect the
    fact that there are situations in which a defendant insists upon
    representing himself. It may be desirable that an attorney for the
    government not enter plea discussions with a defendant personally.
    If necessary, counsel can be appointed for purposes of plea
    discussions. (Subdivision (d) makes it mandatory that the court
    inquire of the defendant whether his plea is the result of plea
    discussions between him and the attorney for the government. This
    is intended to enable the court to reject an agreement reached by
    an unrepresented defendant unless the court is satisfied that
    acceptance of the agreement adequately protects the rights of the
    defendant and the interests of justice.) This is substantially the
    position of the ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec.
    3.1(a), Commentary at 65-66 (Approved Draft, 1968). Apparently, it
    is the practice of most prosecuting attorneys to enter plea
    discussions only with defendant's counsel. Note, Guilty Plea
    Bargaining: Compromises By Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112
    U.Pa.L.Rev. 865, 904 (1964). Discussions without benefit of counsel
    increase the likelihood that such discussions may be unfair. Some
    courts have indicated that plea discussions in the absence of
    defendant's attorney may be constitutionally prohibited. See
    Anderson v. North Carolina, 221 F.Supp. 930, 935 (W.D.N.C.1963);
    Shape v. Sigler, 230 F.Supp. 601, 606 (D.Neb. 1964).
      Subdivision (e)(1) is intended to make clear that there are four
    possible concessions that may be made in a plea agreement. First,
    the charge may be reduced to a lesser or related offense. Second,
    the attorney for the government may promise to move for dismissal
    of other charges. Third, the attorney for the government may agree
    to recommend or not oppose the imposition of a particular sentence.
    Fourth, the attorneys for the government and the defense may agree
    that a given sentence is an appropriate disposition of the case.
    This is made explicit in subdivision (e)(2) where reference is made
    to an agreement made "in the expectation that a specific sentence
    will be imposed." See Note, Guilty Plea Bargaining: Compromises By
    Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev. 865, 898
    (1964).
      Subdivision (e)(1) prohibits the court from participating in plea
    discussions. This is the position of the ABA Standards Relating to
    Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.3(a) (Approved Draft, 1968).
      It has been stated that it is common practice for a judge to
    participate in plea discussions. See D. Newman, Conviction: The
    Determination of Guilt or Innocence Without Trial 32-52, 78-104
    (1966); Note, Guilty Plea Bargaining: Compromises By Prosecutors To
    Secure Guilty Pleas, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev. 865, 891, 905 (1964).
      There are valid reasons for a judge to avoid involvement in plea
    discussions. It might lead the defendant to believe that he would
    not receive a fair trial, were there a trial before the same judge.
    The risk of not going along with the disposition apparently desired
    by the judge might induce the defendant to plead guilty, even if
    innocent. Such involvement makes it difficult for a judge to
    objectively assess the voluntariness of the plea. See ABA Standards
    Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.3(a), Commentary at 72-74
    (Approved Draft, 1968); Note, Guilty Plea Bargaining: Compromises
    By Prosecutors To Secure Guilty Pleas, 112 U.Pa.L.Rev. 865, 891-892
    (1964); Comment, Official Inducements to Plead Guilty: Suggested
    Morals for a Marketplace, 32 U.Chi.L.Rev. 167, 180-183 (1964);
    Informal Opinion No. 779 ABA Professional Ethics Committee ("A
    judge should not be a party to advance arrangements for the
    determination of sentence, whether as a result of a guilty plea or
    a finding of guilt based on proof."), 51 A.B.A.J. 444 (1965). As
    has been recently pointed out:
      The unequal positions of the judge and the accused, one with the
    power to commit to prison and the other deeply concerned to avoid
    prison, as once raise a question of fundamental fairness. When a
    judge becomes a participant in plea bargaining he brings to bear
    the full force and majesty of his office. His awesome power to
    impose a substantially longer or even maximum sentence in excess of
    that proposed is present whether referred to or not. A defendant
    needs no reminder that if he rejects the proposal, stands upon his
    right to trial and is convicted, he faces a significantly longer
    sentence. United States ex rel. Elksnis v. Gilligan, 256 F.Supp.
    244, 254 (S.D.N.Y. 1966).
      On the other hand, one commentator has taken the position that
    the judge may be involved in discussions either after the agreement
    is reached or to help elicit facts and an agreement. Enker,
    Perspectives on Plea Bargaining, in President's Commission on Law
    Enforcement and Administration of Justice, Task Force Report: The
    Courts 108, 117-118 (1967).
      The amendment makes clear that the judge should not participate
    in plea discussions leading to a plea agreement. It is contemplated
    that the judge may participate in such discussions as may occur
    when the plea agreement is disclosed in open court. This is the
    position of the recently adopted Illinois Supreme Court Rule
    402(d)(1) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec. 402(d)(1). As
    to what may constitute "participation," contrast People v.
    Earegood, 12 Mich.App. 256, 268-269, 162 N.W.2d 802, 809-810
    (1968), with Kruse v. State, 47 Wis.2d 460, 177 N.W.2d 322 (1970).
      Subdivision (e)(2) provides that the judge shall require the
    disclosure of any plea agreement in open court. In People v. West,
    3 Cal.3d 595, 91 Cal.Rptr. 385, 477 P.2d 409 (1970), the court
    said:
      [T]he basis of the bargain should be disclosed to the court and
    incorporated in the record. * * *
      Without limiting that court to those we set forth, we note four
    possible methods of incorporation: (1) the bargain could be stated
    orally and recorded by the court reporter, whose notes then must be
    preserved or transcribed; (2) the bargain could be set forth by the
    clerk in the minutes of the court; (3) the parties could file a
    written stipulation stating the terms of the bargain; (4) finally,
    counsel or the court itself may find it useful to prepare and
    utilize forms for the recordation of plea bargains. 91 Cal.Rptr.
    393, 394, 477 P.2d at 417, 418.
      The District of Columbia Court of General Sessions is using a
    "Sentence-Recommendation Agreement" form.
      Upon notice of the plea agreement, the court is given the option
    to accept or reject the agreement or defer its decision until
    receipt of the presentence report.
      The judge may, and often should, defer his decision until he
    examines the presentence report. This is made possible by rule 32
    which allows a judge, with the defendant's consent, to inspect a
    presentence report to determine whether a plea agreement should be
    accepted. For a discussion of the use of conditional plea
    acceptance, see ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec.
    3.3(b), Commentary at 74-76, and Supplement, Proposed Revisions
    Sec. 3.3(b) at 2-3 (Approved Draft, 1968); Illinois Supreme Court
    Rule 402(d)(2) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec.
    402(d)(2).
      The plea agreement procedure does not attempt to define criteria
    for the acceptance or rejection of a plea agreement. Such a
    decision is left to the discretion of the individual trial judge.
      Subdivision (e)(3) makes is mandatory, if the court decides to
    accept the plea agreement, that it inform the defendant that it
    will embody in the judgment and sentence the disposition provided
    in the plea agreement, or one more favorable to the defendant. This
    serves the purpose of informing the defendant immediately that the
    agreement will be implemented.
      Subdivision (e)(4) requires the court, if it rejects the plea
    agreement, to inform the defendant of this fact and to advise the
    defendant personally, in open court, that the court is not bound by
    the plea agreement. The defendant must be afforded an opportunity
    to withdraw his plea and must be advised that if he persists in his
    guilty plea or plea of nolo contendere, the disposition of the case
    may be less favorable to him than that contemplated by the plea
    agreement. That the defendant should have the opportunity to
    withdraw his plea if the court rejects the plea agreement is the
    position taken in ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty,
    Supplement, Proposed Revisions Sec. 2.1(a)(ii)(5) (Approved Draft,
    1968). Such a rule has been adopted in Illinois. Illinois Supreme
    Court Rule 402(d)(2) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec.
    402(d)(2).
      If the court rejects the plea agreement and affords the defendant
    the opportunity to withdraw the plea, the court is not precluded
    from accepting a guilty plea from the same defendant at a later
    time, when such plea conforms to the requirements of rule 11.
      Subdivision (e)(5) makes it mandatory that, except for good cause
    shown, the court be notified of the existence of a plea agreement
    at the arraignment or at another time prior to trial fixed by the
    court. Having a plea entered at this stage provides a reasonable
    time for the defendant to consult with counsel and for counsel to
    complete any plea discussions with the attorney for the government.
    ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.3 (Approved Draft,
    1968). The objective of the provision is to make clear that the
    court has authority to require a plea agreement to be disclosed
    sufficiently in advance of trial so as not to interfere with the
    efficient scheduling of criminal cases.
      Subdivision (e)(6) is taken from rule 410, Rules of Evidence for
    United States Courts and Magistrates (Nov. 1971). See Advisory
    Committee Note thereto. See also the ABA Standards Relating to
    Pleas of Guilty Sec. 2.2 (Approved Draft, 1968); Illinois Supreme
    Court Rule 402(f) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A, Sec.
    402(f).
      Subdivision (f) retains the requirement of old rule 11 that the
    court should not enter judgment upon a plea of guilty without
    making such an inquiry as will satisfy it that there is a factual
    basis for the plea. The draft does not specify that any particular
    type of inquiry be made. See Santobello v. New York, 404 U.S. 257,
    261, 92 S.Ct. 495, 30 L.Ed.2d 427 (1971); "Fed.Rule Crim.Proc. 11,
    governing pleas in federal courts, now makes clear that the
    sentencing judge must develop, on the record, the factual basis for
    the plea, as, for example, by having the accused describe the
    conduct that gave rise to the charge." An inquiry might be made of
    the defendant, of the attorneys for the government and the defense,
    of the presentence report when one is available, or by whatever
    means is appropriate in a specific case. This is the position of
    the ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.6 (Approved
    Draft, 1968). Where inquiry is made of the defendant himself it may
    be desirable practice to place the defendant under oath. With
    regard to a determination that there is a factual basis for a plea
    of guilty to a "lessor or related offense," compare ABA Standards
    Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.1(b)(ii), Commentary at 67-68
    (Approved Draft, 1968), with ALI, Model Penal Code Sec. 1.07(5)
    (P.O.D. 1962). The rule does not speak directly to the issue of
    whether a judge may accept a plea of guilty where there is a
    factual basis for the plea but the defendant asserts his innocence.
    North Carolina v. Alford, 400 U.S. 25, 91 S.Ct. 160, 27 L.Ed.2d 162
    (1970). The procedure in such case would seem to be to deal with
    this as a plea of nolo contendere, the acceptance of which would
    depend upon the judge's decision as to whether acceptance of the
    plea is consistent with "the interest of the public in the
    effective administration of justice" [new rule 11(b)]. The
    defendant who asserts his innocence while pleading guilty or nolo
    contendere is often difficult to deal with in a correctional
    setting, and it may therefore be preferable to resolve the issue of
    guilt or innocence at the trial stage rather than leaving that
    issue unresolved, thus complicating subsequent correctional
    decisions. The rule is intended to make clear that a judge may
    reject a plea of nolo contendere and require the defendant either
    to plead not guilty or to plead guilty under circumstances in which
    the judge is able to determine that the defendant is in fact guilty
    of the crime to which he is pleading guilty.
      Subdivision (g) requires that a verbatim record be kept of the
    proceedings. If there is a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the
    record must include, without limitation, the court's advice to the
    defendant, the inquiry into the voluntariness of the plea and the
    plea agreement, and the inquiry into the accuracy of the plea. Such
    a record is important in the event of a postconviction attack. ABA
    Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 1.7 (Approved Draft,
    1968). A similar requirement was adopted in Illinois: Illinois
    Supreme Court Rule 402(e) (1970), Ill.Rev.Stat. 1973, ch. 110A,
    Sec. 402(e).

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 11 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with pleas. The Supreme
    Court has proposed to amend this rule extensively.
      Rule 11 provides that a defendant may plead guilty, not guilty,
    or nolo contendere. The Supreme Court's amendments to Rule 11(b)
    provide that a nolo contendere plea "shall be accepted by the court
    only after due consideration of the views of the parties and the
    interest of the public in the effective administration of justice."
      The Supreme Court amendments to Rule 11(c) spell out the advise
    that the court must give to the defendant before accepting the
    defendant's plea of guilty or nolo contendere. The Supreme Court
    amendments to Rule 11(d) set forth the steps that the court must
    take to insure that a guilty or nolo contendere plea has been
    voluntarily made.
      The Supreme Court amendments to Rule 11(e) establish a plea
    agreement procedure. This procedure permits the parties to discuss
    disposing of a case without a trial and sets forth the type of
    agreements that the parties can reach concerning the disposition of
    the case. The procedure is not mandatory; a court is free not to
    permit the parties to present plea agreements to it.
      The Supreme Court amendments to Rule 11(f) require that the
    court, before entering judgment upon a plea of guilty, satisfy
    itself that "there is a factual basis for the plea." The Supreme
    Court amendments to Rule 11(g) require that a verbatim record be
    kept of the proceedings at which the defendant enters a plea.
      B. Committee Action. The proposed amendments to Rule 11,
    particularly those relating to the plea negotiating procedure, have
    generated much comment and criticism. No observer is entirely happy
    that our criminal justice system must rely to the extent it does on
    negotiated dispositions of cases. However, crowded court dockets
    make plea negotiating a fact that the Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure should contend with. The Committee accepts the basic
    structure and provisions of Rule 11(e).
      Rule 11(e) as proposed permits each federal court to decide for
    itself the extent to which it will permit plea negotiations to be
    carried on within its own jurisdiction. No court is compelled to
    permit any plea negotiations at all. Proposed Rule 11(e) regulates
    plea negotiations and agreements if, and to the extent that, the
    court permits such negotiations and agreements. [Proposed Rule
    11(e) has been criticized by some federal judges who read it to
    mandate the court to permit plea negotiations and the reaching of
    plea agreements. The Advisory Committee stressed during its
    testimony that the rule does not mandate that a court permit any
    form of plea agreement to be presented to it. See, e.g., the
    remarks of United States Circuit Judge William H. Webster in
    Hearings II, at 196. See also the exchange of correspondence
    between Judge Webster and United States District Judge Frank A.
    Kaufman in Hearings II, at 289-90.]
      Proposed Rule 11(e) contemplates 4 different types of plea
    agreements. First, the defendant can plead guilty or nolo
    contendere in return for the prosecutor's reducing the charge to a
    less serious offense. Second, the defendant can plead guilty or
    nolo contendere in return for the prosecutor dropping, or not
    bringing, a charge or charges relating to other offenses. Third,
    the defendant can plead guilty or nolo contendere in return for the
    prosecutor's recommending a sentence. Fourth, the defendant and
    prosecutor can agree that a particular sentence is the appropriate
    disposition of the case. [It is apparent, though not explicitly
    stated, that Rule 11(e) contemplates that the plea agreement may
    bind the defendant to do more than just plead guilty or nolo
    contendere. For example, the plea agreement may bind the defendant
    to cooperate with the prosecution in a different investigation. The
    Committee intends by its approval of Rule 11(e) to permit the
    parties to agree on such terms in a plea agreement.]
      The Committee added language in subdivisions (e)(2) and (e)(4) to
    permit a plea agreement to be disclosed to the court, or rejected
    by it, in camera. There must be a showing of good cause before the
    court can conduct such proceedings in camera. The language does not
    address itself to whether the showing of good cause may be made in
    open court or in camera. That issue is left for the courts to
    resolve on a case-by-case basis. These changes in subdivisions
    (e)(2) and (e)(4) will permit a fair trial when there is
    substantial media interest in a case and the court is rejecting a
    plea agreement.
      The Committee added an exception to subdivision (e)(6). That
    subdivision provides:
          Evidence of a plea of guilty, later withdrawn, or a plea of
        nolo contendere, or of an offer to plead guilty or nolo
        contendere to the crime charged or any other crime, or of
        statements made in connection with any of the foregoing pleas
        or offers, is not admissible in any civil or criminal
        proceeding against the person who made the plea or offer.
      The Committee's exception permits the use of such evidence in a
    perjury or false statement prosecution where the plea, offer, or
    related statement was made by the defendant on the record, under
    oath and in the presence of counsel. The Committee recognizes that
    even this limited exception may discourage defendants from being
    completely candid and open during plea negotiations and may even
    result in discouraging the reaching of plea agreements. However,
    the Committee believes hat, on balance, it is more important to
    protect the integrity of the judicial process from willful deceit
    and untruthfulness. [The Committee does not intend its language to
    be construed as mandating or encouraging the swearing-in of the
    defendant during proceedings in connection with the disclosure and
    acceptance or rejection of a plea agreement.]
      The Committee recast the language of Rule 11(c), which deals with
    the advice given to a defendant before the court can accept his
    plea of guilty or nolo contendere. The Committee acted in part
    because it believed that the warnings given to the defendant ought
    to include those that Boykin v. Alabama, 395 U.S. 238 (1969), said
    were constitutionally required. In addition, and as a result of its
    change in subdivision (e)(6), the Committee thought if only fair
    that the defendant be warned that his plea of guilty (later
    withdrawn) or nolo contendere, or his offer of either plea, or his
    statements made in connection with such pleas or offers, could
    later be used against him in a perjury trial if made under oath, on
    the record, and in the presence of counsel.

       NOTES OF CONFERENCE COMMITTEE, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-414; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      Note to subdivision (c). Rule 11(c) enumerates certain things
    that a judge must tell a defendant before the judge can accept that
    defendant's plea of guilty or nolo contendere. The House version
    expands upon the list originally proposed by the Supreme Court. The
    Senate version adopts the Supreme Court's proposal.
      The Conference adopts the House provision.
      Note to subdivision (e)(1). Rule 11(e)(1) outlines some general
    considerations concerning the plea agreement procedure. The Senate
    version makes nonsubstantive change in the House version.
      The Conference adopts the Senate provision.
      Note to subdivision (e)(6). Rule 11(e)(6) deals with the use of
    statements made in connection with plea agreements. The House
    version permits a limited use of pleas of guilty, later withdrawn,
    or nolo contendere, offers of such pleas, and statements made in
    connection with such pleas or offers. Such evidence can be used in
    a perjury or false statement prosecution if the plea, offer, or
    related statement was made under oath, on the record, and in the
    presence of counsel. The Senate version permits evidence of
    voluntary and reliable statements made in court on the record to be
    used for the purpose of impeaching the credibility of the declarant
    or in a perjury or false statement prosecution.
      The Conference adopts the House version with changes. The
    Conference agrees that neither a plea nor the offer of a plea ought
    to be admissible for any purpose. The Conference-adopted provision,
    therefore, like the Senate provision, permits only the use of
    statements made in connection with a plea of guilty, later
    withdrawn, or a plea of nolo contendere, or in connection with an
    offer of a guilty or nolo contendere plea.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (e)(2). The amendment to rule 11(e)(2) is
    intended to clarify the circumstances in which the court may accept
    or reject a plea agreement, with the consequences specified in
    subdivision (e)(3) and (4). The present language has been the cause
    of some confusion and has led to results which are not entirely
    consistent. Compare United States v. Sarubbi, 416 F.Supp. 633 (D.
    N.J. 1976); with United States v. Hull, 413 F.Supp. 145 (E.D. Tenn.
    1976).
      Rule 11(e)(1) specifies three types of plea agreements, namely,
    those in which the attorney for the government might
        (A) move for dismissal of other charges; or
        (B) make a recommendation, or agree not to oppose the
      defendant's request, for a particular sentence, with the
      understanding that such recommendation or request shall not be
      binding upon the court; or
        (C) agree that a specific sentence is the appropriate
      disposition of the case.
      A (B) type of plea agreement is clearly of a different order than
    the other two, for an agreement to recommend or not to oppose is
    discharged when the prosecutor performs as he agreed to do. By
    comparison, critical to a type (A) or (C) agreement is that the
    defendant receive the contemplated charge dismissal or agreed-to
    sentence. Consequently, there must ultimately be an acceptance or
    rejection by the court of a type (A) or (C) agreement so that it
    may be determined whether the defendant shall receive the bargained-
    for concessions or shall instead be afforded an opportunity to
    withdraw his plea. But this is not so as to a type (B) agreement;
    there is no "disposition provided for" in such a plea agreement so
    as to make the acceptance provisions of subdivision (e)(3)
    applicable, nor is there a need for rejection with opportunity for
    withdrawal under subdivision (e)(4) in light of the fact that the
    defendant knew the nonbinding character of the recommendation or
    request. United States v. Henderson, 565 F.2d 1119 (9th Cir. 1977);
    United States v. Savage, 561 F.2d 554 (4th Cir. 1977).
      Because a type (B) agreement is distinguishable from the others
    in that it involves only a recommendation or request not binding
    upon the court, it is important that the defendant be aware that
    this is the nature of the agreement into which he has entered. The
    procedure contemplated by the last sentence of amended subdivision
    (e)(2) will establish for the record that there is such awareness.
    This provision conforms to ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of
    Guilty Sec. 1.5 (Approved Draft, 1968), which provides that "the
    court must advise the defendant personally that the recommendations
    of the prosecuting attorney are not binding on the court."
      Sometimes a plea agreement will be partially but not entirely of
    the (B) type, as where a defendant, charged with counts 1, 2 and 3,
    enters into an agreement with the attorney for the government
    wherein it is agreed that if defendant pleads guilty to count 1,
    the prosecutor will recommend a certain sentence as to that count
    and will move for dismissal of counts 2 and 3. In such a case, the
    court must take particular care to ensure that the defendant
    understands which components of the agreement involve only a (B)
    type recommendation and which do not. In the above illustration,
    that part of the agreement which contemplates the dismissal of
    counts 2 and 3 is an (A) type agreement, and thus under rule 11(e)
    the court must either accept the agreement to dismiss these counts
    or else reject it and allow the defendant to withdraw his plea. If
    rejected, the defendant must be allowed to withdraw the plea on
    count 1 even if the type (B) promise to recommend a certain
    sentence on that count is kept, for a multi-faceted plea agreement
    is nonetheless a single agreement. On the other hand, if counts 2
    and 3 are dismissed and the sentence recommendation is made, then
    the defendant is not entitled to withdraw his plea even if the
    sentence recommendation is not accepted by the court, for the
    defendant received all he was entitled to under the various
    components of the plea agreement.
      Note to Subdivision (e)(6). The major objective of the amendment
    to rule 11(e)(6) is to describe more precisely, consistent with the
    original purpose of the provision, what evidence relating to pleas
    or plea discussions is inadmissible. The present language is
    susceptible to interpretation which would make it applicable to a
    wide variety of statements made under various circumstances other
    than within the context of those plea discussions authorized by
    rule 11(e) and intended to be protected by subdivision (e)(6) of
    the rule. See United States v. Herman, 544 F.2d 791 (5th Cir.
    1977), discussed herein.
      Fed.R.Ev. 410, as originally adopted by Pub. L. 93-595, provided
    in part that "evidence of a plea of guilty, later withdrawn, or a
    plea of nolo contendere, or of an offer to plead guilty or nolo
    contendere to the crime charged or any other crime, or of
    statements made in connection with any of the foregoing pleas or
    offers, is not admissible in any civil or criminal action, case, or
    proceeding against the person who made the plea or offer." (This
    rule was adopted with the proviso that it "shall be superseded by
    any amendment to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure which is
    inconsistent with this rule.") As the Advisory Committee Note
    explained: "Exclusion of offers to plead guilty or nolo has as its
    purpose the promotion of disposition of criminal cases by
    compromise." The amendment of Fed.R.Crim.P. 11, transmitted to
    Congress by the Supreme Court in April 1974, contained a
    subdivision (e)(6) essentially identical to the rule 410 language
    quoted above, as a part of a substantial revision of rule 11. The
    most significant feature of this revision was the express
    recognition given to the fact that the "attorney for the government
    and the attorney for the defendant or the defendant when acting pro
    se may engage in discussions with a view toward reaching" a plea
    agreement. Subdivision (e)(6) was intended to encourage such
    discussions. As noted in H.R.Rep. No. 94-247, 94th Cong., 1st Sess.
    7 (1975), the purpose of subdivision (e)(6) is to not "discourage
    defendants from being completely candid and open during plea
    negotiations." Similarly, H.R.Rep. No. 94-414, 94th Cong., 1st
    Sess. 10 (1975), states that "Rule 11(e)(6) deals with the use of
    statements made in connection with plea agreements." (Rule 11(e)(6)
    was thereafter enacted, with the addition of the proviso allowing
    use of statements in a prosecution for perjury, and with the
    qualification that the inadmissible statements must also be
    "relevant to" the inadmissible pleas or offers. Pub. L. 94-64;
    Fed.R.Ev. 410 was then amended to conform. Pub. L. 94-149.)
      While this history shows that the purpose of Fed.R.Ev. 410 and
    Fed.R.Crim.P. 11(e)(6) is to permit the unrestrained candor which
    produces effective plea discussions between the "attorney for the
    government and the attorney for the defendant or the defendant when
    acting pro se," given visibility and sanction in rule 11(e), a
    literal reading of the language of these two rules could reasonably
    lead to the conclusion that a broader rule of inadmissibility
    obtains. That is, because "statements" are generally inadmissible
    if "made in connection with, and relevant to" an "offer to plead
    guilty," it might be thought that an otherwise voluntary admission
    to law enforcement officials is rendered inadmissible merely
    because it was made in the hope of obtaining leniency by a plea.
    Some decisions interpreting rule 11(e)(6) point in this direction.
    See United States v. Herman, 544 F.2d 791 (5th Cir. 1977)
    (defendant in custody of two postal inspectors during continuance
    of removal hearing instigated conversation with them and at some
    point said he would plead guilty to armed robbery if the murder
    charge was dropped; one inspector stated they were not "in
    position" to make any deals in this regard; held, defendant's
    statement inadmissible under rule 11(e)(6) because the defendant
    "made the statements during the course of a conversation in which
    he sought concessions from the government in return for a guilty
    plea"); United States v. Brooks, 536 F.2d 1137 (6th Cir. 1976)
    (defendant telephoned postal inspector and offered to plead guilty
    if he got 2-year maximum; statement inadmissible).
      The amendment makes inadmissible statements made "in the course
    of any proceedings under this rule regarding" either a plea of
    guilty later withdrawn or a plea of nolo contendere, and also
    statements "made in the course of plea discussions with an attorney
    for the government which do not result in a plea of guilty or which
    result in a plea of guilty later withdrawn." It is not limited to
    statements by the defendant himself, and thus would cover
    statements by defense counsel regarding defendant's incriminating
    admissions to him. It thus fully protects the plea discussion
    process authorized by rule 11 without attempting to deal with
    confrontations between suspects and law enforcement agents, which
    involve problems of quite different dimensions. See, e.g., ALI
    Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure, art. 140 and Sec. 150.2(8)
    (Proposed Official Draft, 1975) (latter section requires exclusion
    if "a law enforcement officer induces any person to make a
    statement by promising leniency"). This change, it must be
    emphasized, does not compel the conclusion that statements made to
    law enforcement agents, especially when the agents purport to have
    authority to bargain, are inevitably admissible. Rather, the point
    is that such cases are not covered by the per se rule of 11(e)(6)
    and thus must be resolved by that body of law dealing with police
    interrogations.
      If there has been a plea of guilty later withdrawn or a plea of
    nolo contendere, subdivision (e)(6)(C) makes inadmissible
    statements made "in the course of any proceedings under this rule"
    regarding such pleas. This includes, for example, admissions by the
    defendant when he makes his plea in court pursuant to rule 11 and
    also admissions made to provide the factual basis pursuant to
    subdivision (f). However, subdivision (e)(6)(C) is not limited to
    statements made in court. If the court were to defer its decision
    on a plea agreement pending examination of the presentence report,
    as authorized by subdivision (e)(2), statements made to the
    probation officer in connection with the preparation of that report
    would come within this provision.
      This amendment is fully consistent with all recent and major law
    reform efforts on this subject. ALI Model Code of Pre-Arraignment
    Procedure Sec. 350.7 (Proposed Official Draft, 1975), and ABA
    Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.4 (Approved Draft,
    1968) both provide:
        Unless the defendant subsequently enters a plea of guilty or
      nolo contendere which is not withdrawn, the fact that the
      defendant or his counsel and the prosecuting attorney engaged in
      plea discussions or made a plea agreement should not be received
      in evidence against or in favor of the defendant in any criminal
      or civil action or administrative proceedings.
    The Commentary to the latter states:
        The above standard is limited to discussions and agreements
      with the prosecuting attorney. Sometimes defendants will indicate
      to the police their willingness to bargain, and in such instances
      these statements are sometimes admitted in court against the
      defendant. State v. Christian, 245 S.W.2d 895 (Mo.1952). If the
      police initiate this kind of discussion, this may have some
      bearing on the admissibility of the defendant's statement.
      However, the policy considerations relevant to this issue are
      better dealt with in the context of standards governing in-
      custody interrogation by the police.
    Similarly, Unif.R.Crim.P. 441(d) (Approved Draft, 1974), provides
    that except under limited circumstances "no discussion between the
    parties or statement by the defendant or his lawyer under this
    Rule," i.e., the rule providing "the parties may meet to discuss
    the possibility of pretrial diversion * * * or of a plea
    agreement," are admissible. The amendment is likewise consistent
    with the typical state provision on this subject; see, e.g.,
    Ill.S.Ct. Rule 402(f).
      The language of the amendment identifies with more precision than
    the present language the necessary relationship between the
    statements and the plea or discussion. See the dispute between the
    majority and concurring opinions in United States v. Herman, 544
    F.2d 791 (5th Cir. 1977), concerning the meanings and effect of the
    phrases "connection to" and "relevant to" in the present rule.
    Moreover, by relating the statements to "plea discussions" rather
    than "an offer to plead," the amendment ensures "that even an
    attempt to open plea bargaining [is] covered under the same rule of
    inadmissibility." United States v. Brooks, 536 F.2d 1137 (6th Cir.
    1976).
      The last sentence of Rule 11(e)(6) is amended to provide a second
    exception to the general rule of nonadmissibility of the described
    statements. Under the amendment, such a statement is also
    admissible "in any proceeding wherein another statement made in the
    course of the same plea or plea discussions has been introduced and
    the statement ought in fairness be considered contemporaneously
    with it." This change is necessary so that, when evidence of
    statements made in the course of or as a consequence of a certain
    plea or plea discussions are introduced under circumstances not
    prohibited by this rule (e.g., not "against" the person who made
    the plea), other statements relating to the same plea or plea
    discussions may also be admitted when relevant to the matter at
    issue. For example, if a defendant upon a motion to dismiss a
    prosecution on some ground were able to admit certain statements
    made in aborted plea discussions in his favor, then other relevant
    statements made in the same plea discussions should be admissible
    against the defendant in the interest of determining the truth of
    the matter at issue. The language of the amendment follows closely
    that in Fed.R.Evid. 106, as the considerations involved are very
    similar.
      The phrase "in any civil or criminal proceeding" has been moved
    from its present position, following the word "against," for
    purposes of clarity. An ambiguity presently exists because the word
    "against" may be read as referring either to the kind of proceeding
    in which the evidence is offered or the purpose for which it is
    offered. The change makes it clear that the latter construction is
    correct. No change is intended with respect to provisions making
    evidence rules inapplicable in certain situations. See, e.g.,
    Fed.R.Evid. 104(a) and 1101(d).
      Unlike ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty Sec. 3.4
    (Approved Draft, 1968), and ALI Model Code of Pre-Arraignment
    Procedure Sec. 350.7 (Proposed Official Draft, 1975), rule 11(e)(6)
    does not also provide that the described evidence is inadmissible
    "in favor of" the defendant. This is not intended to suggest,
    however, that such evidence will inevitably be admissible in the
    defendant's favor. Specifically, no disapproval is intended of such
    decisions as United States v. Verdoorn, 528 F.2d 103 (8th Cir.
    1976), holding that the trial judge properly refused to permit the
    defendants to put into evidence at their trial the fact the
    prosecution had attempted to plea bargain with them, as "meaningful
    dialogue between the parties would, as a practical matter, be
    impossible if either party had to assume the risk that plea offers
    would be admissible in evidence."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (c)(1). Subdivision (c)(1) has been amended
    by specifying "the effect of any special parole term" as one of the
    matters about which a defendant who has tendered a plea of guilty
    or nolo contendere is to be advised by the court. This amendment
    does not make any change in the law, as the courts are in agreement
    that such advice is presently required by Rule 11. See, e.g., Moore
    v. United States, 592 F.2d 753 (4th Cir. 1979); United States v.
    Eaton, 579 F.2d 1181 (10th Cir. 1978); Richardson v. United States,
    577 F.2d 447 (8th Cir. 1978); United States v. Del Prete, 567 F.2d
    928 (9th Cir. 1978); United States v. Watson, 548 F.2d 1058
    (D.C.Cir. 1977); United States v. Crusco, 536 F.2d 21 (2d Cir.
    1976); United States v. Yazbeck, 524 F.2d 641 (1st Cir. 1975);
    United States v. Wolak, 510 F.2d 164 (6th Cir. 1975). In United
    States v. Timmreck, 441 U.S. 780 (1979), 99 S.Ct. 2085, 60 L.Ed.2d
    634 (1979), the Supreme Court assumed that the judge's failure in
    that case to describe the mandatory special parole term constituted
    "a failure to comply with the formal requirements of the Rule."
      The purpose of the amendment is to draw more specific attention
    to the fact that advice concerning special parole terms is a
    necessary part of Rule 11 procedure. As noted in Moore v. United
    States, supra:
      Special parole is a significant penalty. * * * Unlike ordinary
      parole, which does not involve supervision beyond the original
      prison term set by the court and the violation of which cannot
      lead to confinement beyond that sentence, special parole
      increases the possible period of confinement. It entails the
      possibility that a defendant may have to serve his original
      sentence plus a substantial additional period, without credit for
      time spent on parole. Explanation of special parole in open court
      is therefore essential to comply with the Rule's mandate that the
      defendant be informed of "the maximum possible penalty provided
      by law."
    As the aforecited cases indicate, in the absence of specification
    of the requirement in the rule it has sometimes happened that such
    advice has been inadvertently omitted from Rule 11 warnings.
      The amendment does not attempt to enumerate all of the
    characteristics of the special parole term which the judge ought to
    bring to the defendant's attention. Some flexibility in this
    respect must be preserved although it is well to note that the
    unique characteristics of this kind of parole are such that they
    may not be readily perceived by laymen. Moore v. United States
    supra, recommends that in an appropriate case the judge
      inform the defendant and determine that he understands the
      following:
          (1) that a special parole term will be added to any prison
        sentence he receives;
          (2) the minimum length of the special parole term that must
        be imposed and the absence of a statutory maximum;
          (3) that special parole is entirely different from - and in
        addition to - ordinary parole; and
          (4) that if the special parole is violated, the defendant can
        be returned to prison for the remainder of his sentence and the
        full length of his special parole term.
      The amendment should not be read as meaning that a failure to
    comply with this particular requirement will inevitably entitle the
    defendant to relief. See United States v. Timmreck, supra.
    Likewise, the amendment makes no change in the existing law to the
    effect
      that many aspects of traditional parole need not be communicated
      to the defendant by the trial judge under the umbrella of Rule
      11. For example, a defendant need not be advised of all
      conceivable consequences such as when he may be considered for
      parole or that, if he violates his parole, he will again be
      imprisoned.
    Bunker v. Wise, 550 F.2d 1155, 1158 (9th Cir. 1977).
      Note to Subdivision (c)(4). The amendment to subdivision (c)(4)
    is intended to overcome the present conflict between the
    introductory language of subdivision (c), which contemplates the
    advice being given "[b]efore accepting a plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere," and thus presumably after the plea has been tendered,
    and the "if he pleads" language of subdivision (c)(4) which
    suggests the plea has not been tendered.
      As noted by Judge Doyle in United States v. Sinagub, 468 F.Supp.
    353 (W.D.Wis.1979):
      Taken literally, this wording of subsection (4) of 11(c) suggests
      that before eliciting any plea at an arraignment, the court is
      required to insure that a defendant understands that if he or she
      pleads guilty or nolo contendere, the defendant will be waiving
      the right to trial. Under subsection (3) of 11(c), however, there
      is no requirement that at this pre-plea stage, the court must
      insure that the defendant understands that he or she enjoys the
      right to a trial and, at trial, the right to the assistance of
      counsel, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses
      against him or her, and the right not to be compelled to
      incriminate himself or herself. It would be incongruous to
      require that at the pre-plea stage the court insure that the
      defendant understands that if he enters a plea of guilty or nolo
      contendere he will be waiving a right, the existence and nature
      of which need not be explained until after such a plea has been
      entered. I conclude that the insertion of the words "that if he
      pleads guilty or nolo contendere," as they appear in subsection
      (4) of 11(c), was an accident of draftsmanship which occurred in
      the course of Congressional rewriting of 11(c) as it has been
      approved by the Supreme Court. Those words are to be construed
      consistently with the words "Before accepting a plea of guilty or
      nolo contendere," as they appear in the opening language of
      11(c), and consistently with the omission of the words "that if
      he pleads" from subsections (1), (2), and (3) of 11(c). That is,
      as they appear in subsection (4) of 11(c), the words, "that if he
      pleads guilty or nolo contendere" should be construed to mean
      "that if his plea of guilty or nolo contendere is accepted by the
      court."
    Although this is a very logical interpretation of the present
    language, the amendment will avoid the necessity to engage in such
    analysis in order to determine the true meaning of subdivision
    (c)(4).
      Note to Subdivision (c)(5). Subdivision (c)(5), in its present
    form, may easily be read as contemplating that in every case in
    which a plea of guilty or nolo contendere is tendered, warnings
    must be given about the possible use of defendant's statements,
    obtained under oath, on the record and in the presence of counsel,
    in a later prosecution for perjury or false statement. The language
    has prompted some courts to reach the remarkable result that a
    defendant who pleads guilty or nolo contendere without receiving
    those warnings must be allowed to overturn his plea on appeal even
    though he was never questioned under oath, on the record, in the
    presence of counsel about the offense to which he pleaded. United
    States v. Artis, No. 78-5012 (4th Cir. March 12, 1979); United
    States v. Boone, 543 F.2d 1090 (4th Cir. 1976). Compare United
    States v. Michaelson, 552 F.2d 472 (2d Cir. 1977) (failure to give
    subdivision (c)(5) warnings not a basis for reversal, "at least
    when, as here, defendant was not put under oath before questioning
    about his guilty plea"). The present language of subdivision (c)(5)
    may also have contributed to the conclusion, not otherwise
    supported by the rule, that "Rule 11 requires that the defendant be
    under oath for the entirety of the proceedings" conducted pursuant
    to that rule and that failure to place the defendant under oath
    would itself make necessary overturning the plea on appeal. United
    States v. Aldridge, 553 F.2d 922 (5th Cir. 1977).
      When questioning of the kind described in subdivision (c)(5) is
    not contemplated by the judge who is receiving the plea, no purpose
    is served by giving the (c)(5) warnings, which in such
    circumstances can only confuse the defendant and detract from the
    force of the other warnings required by Rule 11. As correctly noted
    in United States v. Sinagub, supra,
      subsection (5) of section (c) of Rule 11 is qualitatively
      distinct from the other sections of the Rule. It does not go to
      whether the plea is knowingly or voluntarily made, nor to whether
      the plea should be accepted and judgment entered. Rather, it does
      go to the possible consequences of an event which may or may not
      occur during the course of the arraignment hearing itself,
      namely, the administration of an oath to the defendant. Whether
      this event is to occur is wholly within the control of the
      presiding judge. If the event is not to occur, it is pointless to
      inform the defendant of its consequences. If a presiding judge
      intends that an oath not be administered to a defendant during an
      arraignment hearing, but alters that intention at some point,
      only then would the need arise to inform the defendant of the
      possible consequences of the administration of the oath.
    The amendment to subdivision (c)(5) is intended to make it clear
    that this is the case.
      The amendment limits the circumstances in which the warnings must
    be given, but does not change the fact, as noted in Sinagub that
    these warnings are "qualitatively distinct" from the other advice
    required by Rule 11(c). This being the case, a failure to give the
    subdivision (c)(5) warnings even when the defendant was questioned
    under oath, on the record and in the presence of counsel would in
    no way affect the validity of the defendant's plea. Rather, this
    failure bears upon the admissibility of defendant's answers
    pursuant to subdivision (e)(6) in a later prosecution for perjury
    or false statement.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (a). There are many defenses, objections and
    requests which a defendant must ordinarily raise by pretrial
    motion. See, e.g., 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3162(a)(2); Fed.R.Crim.P.12(b).
    Should that motion be denied, interlocutory appeal of the ruling by
    the defendant is seldom permitted. See United States v. MacDonald,
    435 U.S. 850 (1978) (defendant may not appeal denial of his motion
    to dismiss based upon Sixth Amendment speedy trial grounds);
    DiBella v. United States, 369 U.S. 121 (1962) (defendant may not
    appeal denial of pretrial motion to suppress evidence); compare
    Abney v. United States, 431 U.S. 651 (1977) (interlocutory appeal
    of denial of motion to dismiss on double jeopardy grounds
    permissible). Moreover, should the defendant thereafter plead
    guilty or nolo contendere, this will usually foreclose later appeal
    with respect to denial of the pretrial motion "When a criminal
    defendant has solemnly admitted in open court that he is in fact
    guilty of the offense with which he is charged, he may not
    thereafter raise independent claims relating to the deprivation of
    constitutional rights that occurred prior to the entry of the
    guilty plea." Tollett v. Henderson, 411 U.S. 258, (1973). Though a
    nolo plea differs from a guilty plea in other respects, it is clear
    that it also constitutes a waiver of all nonjurisdictional defects
    in a manner equivalent to a guilty plea. Lott v. United States, 367
    U.S. 421 (1961).
      As a consequence, a defendant who has lost one or more pretrial
    motions will often go through an entire trial simply to preserve
    the pretrial issues for later appellate review. This results in a
    waste of prosecutorial and judicial resources, and causes delay in
    the trial of other cases, contrary to the objectives underlying the
    Speedy Trial Act of 1974, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3161 et seq. These
    unfortunate consequences may be avoided by the conditional plea
    device expressly authorized by new subdivision (a)(2).
      The development of procedures to avoid the necessity for trials
    which are undertaken for the sole purpose of preserving pretrial
    objections has been consistently favored by the commentators. See
    ABA Standards Relating to the Administration of Criminal Justice,
    standard 21-1.3(c) (2d ed. 1978); Model Code of Pre-Arraignment
    Procedure Sec. SS 290.1(4)(b) (1975); Uniform Rules of Criminal
    Procedure, rule 444(d) (Approved Draft, 1974); 1 C. Wright, Federal
    Practice and Procedure  -  Criminal Sec. 175 (1969); 3 W. LaFave,
    Search and Seizure Sec. 11.1 (1978). The Supreme Court has
    characterized the New York practice, whereby appeals from
    suppression motions may be appealed notwithstanding a guilty plea,
    as a "commendable effort to relieve the problem of congested trial
    calendars in a manner that does not diminish the opportunity for
    the assertion of rights guaranteed by the Constitution." Lefkowitz
    v. Newsome, 420 U.S. 283, 293 (1975). That Court has never
    discussed conditional pleas as such, but has permitted without
    comment a federal appeal on issues preserved by a conditional plea.
    Jaben v. United States, 381 U.S. 214 (1965).
      In the absence of specific authorization by statute or rule for a
    conditional plea, the circuits have divided on the permissibility
    of the practice. Two circuits have actually approved the entry of
    conditional pleas, United States v. Burke, 517 F.2d 377 (2d Cir.
    1975); United States v. Moskow, 588 F.2d 882 (3d Cir. 1978); and
    two others have praised the conditional plea concept, United States
    v. Clark, 459 F.2d 977 (8th Cir. 1972); United States v. Dorsey,
    449 F.2d 1104 (D.C.Cir. 1971). Three circuits have expressed the
    view that a conditional plea is logically inconsistent and thus
    improper, United States v. Brown, 499 F.2d 829 (7th Cir. 1974);
    United States v. Sepe, 472 F.2d 784, aff'd en banc, 486 F.2d 1044
    (5th Cir. 1973); United States v. Cox, 464 F.2d 937 (6th Cir.
    1972); three others have determined only that conditional pleas are
    not now authorized in the federal system, United States v. Benson,
    579 F.2d 508 (9th Cir. 1978); United States v. Nooner, 565 F.2d 633
    (10th Cir. 1977); United States v. Matthews, 472 F.2d 1173 (4th
    Cir. 1973); while one circuit has reserved judgment on the issue,
    United States v. Warwar, 478 F.2d 1183 (1st Cir. 1973). (At the
    state level, a few jurisdictions by statute allow appeal from
    denial of a motion to suppress notwithstanding a subsequent guilty
    plea, Cal. Penal Code Sec. 1538.5(m); N.Y.Crim. Proc. Law Sec.
    710.20(1); Wis.Stat.Ann. Sec. 971.31(10), but in the absence of
    such a provision the state courts are also in disagreement as to
    whether a conditional plea is permissible; see cases collected in
    Comment, 26 U.C.L.A. L.Rev. 360, 373 (1978).)
      The conditional plea procedure provided for in subdivision (a)(2)
    will, as previously noted, serve to conserve prosecutorial and
    judicial resources and advance speedy trial objectives. It will
    also produce much needed uniformity in the federal system on this
    matter; see United States v. Clark, supra, noting the split of
    authority and urging resolution by statute or rule. Also, the
    availability of a conditional plea under specified circumstances
    will aid in clarifying the fact that traditional, unqualified pleas
    do constitute a waiver of nonjurisdictional defects. See United
    States v. Nooner, supra (defendant sought appellate review of
    denial of pretrial suppression motion, despite his prior
    unqualified guilty plea, claiming the Second Circuit conditional
    plea practice led him to believe a guilty plea did not bar appeal
    of pretrial issues).
      The obvious advantages of the conditional plea procedure
    authorized by subdivision (a)(2) are not outweighed by any
    significant or compelling disadvantages. As noted in Comment,
    supra, at 375: "Four major arguments have been raised by courts
    disapproving of conditioned pleas. The objections are that the
    procedure encourages a flood of appellate litigation, militates
    against achieving finality in the criminal process, reduces
    effectiveness of appellate review due to the lack of a full trial
    record, and forces decision on constitutional questions that could
    otherwise be avoided by invoking the harmless error doctrine." But,
    as concluded therein, those "arguments do not withstand close
    analysis." Ibid.
      As for the first of those arguments, experience in states which
    have permitted appeals of suppression motions notwithstanding a
    subsequent plea of guilty is most relevant, as conditional pleas
    are likely to be most common when the objective is to appeal that
    kind of pretrial ruling. That experience has shown that the number
    of appeals has not increased substantially. See Comment, 9
    Hous.L.Rev. 305, 315-19 (1971). The minimal added burden at the
    appellate level is certainly a small price to pay for avoiding
    otherwise unnecessary trials.
      As for the objection that conditional pleas conflict with the
    government's interest in achieving finality, it is likewise without
    force. While it is true that the conditional plea does not have the
    complete finality of the traditional plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere because "the essence of the agreement is that the legal
    guilt of the defendant exists only if the prosecution's case"
    survives on appeal, the plea
      continues to serve a partial state interest in finality, however,
      by establishing admission of the defendant's factual guilt. The
      defendant stands guilty and the proceedings come to an end if the
      reserved issue is ultimately decided in the government's favor.
    Comment, 26 U.C.L.A. L.Rev. 360, 378 (1978).
      The claim that the lack of a full trial record precludes
    effective appellate review may on occasion be relevant. Cf. United
    States v. MacDonald, supra (holding interlocutory appeal not
    available for denial of defendant's pretrial motion to dismiss, on
    speedy trial grounds, and noting that "most speedy trial claims * *
    * are best considered only after the relevant facts have been
    developed at trial"). However, most of the objections which would
    likely be raised by pretrial motion and preserved for appellate
    review by a conditional plea are subject to appellate resolution
    without a trial record. Certainly this is true as to the very
    common motion to suppress evidence, as is indicated by the fact
    that appellate courts presently decide such issues upon
    interlocutory appeal by the government.
      With respect to the objection that conditional pleas circumvent
    application of the harmless error doctrine, it must be acknowledged
    that "[a]bsent a full trial record, containing all the government's
    evidence against the defendant, invocation of the harmless error
    rule is arguably impossible." Comment, supra, at 380. But, the
    harmless error standard with respect to constitutional objections
    is sufficiently high, see Chapman v. California, 386 U.S. 18
    (1967), that relatively few appellate decisions result in
    affirmance upon that basis. Thus it will only rarely be true that
    the conditional plea device will cause an appellate court to
    consider constitutional questions which could otherwise have been
    avoided by invocation of the doctrine of harmless error.
      To the extent that these or related objections would otherwise
    have some substance, they are overcome by the provision in Rule
    11(a)(2) that the defendant may enter a conditional plea only "with
    the approval of the court and the consent of the government." (In
    this respect, the rule adopts the practice now found in the Second
    Circuit.) The requirement of approval by the court is most
    appropriate, as it ensures, for example, that the defendant is not
    allowed to take an appeal on a matter which can only be fully
    developed by proceeding to trial; cf. United States v. MacDonald,
    supra. As for consent by the government, it will ensure that
    conditional pleas will be allowed only when the decision of the
    court of appeals will dispose of the case either by allowing the
    plea to stand or by such action as compelling dismissal of the
    indictment or suppressing essential evidence. Absent such
    circumstances, the conditional plea might only serve to postpone
    the trial and require the government to try the case after
    substantial delay, during which time witnesses may be lost,
    memories dimmed, and the offense grown so stale as to lose jury
    appeal. The government is in a unique position to determine whether
    the matter at issue would be case-dispositive, and, as a party to
    the litigation, should have an absolute right to refuse to consent
    to potentially prejudicial delay. Although it was suggested in
    United States v. Moskow, supra, that the government should have no
    right to prevent the entry of a conditional plea because a
    defendant has no comparable right to block government appeal of a
    pretrial ruling pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3731, that analogy is
    unconvincing. That statute requires the government to certify that
    the appeal is not taken for purposes of delay. Moreover, where the
    pretrial ruling is case-dispositive, Sec. 3731 is the only
    mechanism by which the government can obtain appellate review, but
    a defendant may always obtain review by pleading not guilty.
      Unlike the state statutes cited earlier, Rule 11(a)(2) is not
    limited to instances in which the pretrial ruling the defendant
    wishes to appeal was in response to defendant's motion to suppress
    evidence. Though it may be true that the conditional plea device
    will be most commonly employed as to such rulings, the objectives
    of the rule are well served by extending it to other pretrial
    rulings as well. See, e.g., ABA Standards, supra (declaring the New
    York provision "should be enlarged to include other pretrial
    defenses"); Uniform Rules of Criminal Procedure, rule 444(d)
    (Approved Draft, 1974) ("any pretrial motion which, if granted,
    would be dispositive of the case").
      The requirement that the conditional plea be made by the
    defendant "reserving in writing the right to appeal from the
    adverse determination of any specified pretrial motion," though
    extending beyond the Second Circuit practice, will ensure careful
    attention to any conditional plea. It will document that a
    particular plea was in fact conditional, and will identify
    precisely what pretrial issues have been preserved for appellate
    review. By requiring this added step, it will be possible to avoid
    entry of a conditional plea without the considered acquiescence of
    the government (see United States v. Burke, supra, holding that
    failure of the government to object to entry of a conditional plea
    constituted consent) and post-plea claims by the defendant that his
    plea should be deemed conditional merely because it occurred after
    denial of his pretrial motions (see United States v. Nooner,
    supra).
      It must be emphasized that the only avenue of review of the
    specified pretrial ruling permitted under a rule 11(a)(2)
    conditional plea is an appeal, which must be brought in compliance
    with Fed.R.App.P. 4(b). Relief via 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255 is not
    available for this purpose.
      The Supreme Court has held that certain kinds of constitutional
    objections may be raised after a plea of guilty. Menna v. New York,
    423 U.S. 61 (1975) (double jeopardy violation); Blackledge v.
    Perry, 417 U.S. 21 (1974) (due process violation by charge
    enhancement following defendant's exercise of right to trial de
    novo). Subdivision 11(a)(2) has no application to such situations,
    and should not be interpreted as either broadening or narrowing the
    Menna-Blackledge doctrine or as establishing procedures for its
    application.
      Note to Subdivision (h). Subdivision (h) makes clear that the
    harmless error rule of Rule 52(a) is applicable to Rule 11. The
    provision does not, however, attempt to define the meaning of
    "harmless error," which is left to the case law. Prior to the
    amendments which took effect on Dec. 1, 1975, Rule 11 was very
    brief; it consisted of but four sentences. The 1975 amendments
    increased significantly the procedures which must be undertaken
    when a defendant tenders a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, but
    this change was warranted by the "two principal objectives" then
    identified in the Advisory Committee Note: (1) ensuring that the
    defendant has made an informed plea; and (2) ensuring that plea
    agreements are brought out into the open in court. An inevitable
    consequence of the 1975 amendments was some increase in the risk
    that a trial judge, in a particular case, might inadvertently
    deviate to some degree from the procedure which a very literal
    reading of Rule 11 would appear to require.
      This being so, it became more apparent than ever that Rule 11
    should not be given such a crabbed interpretation that ceremony was
    exalted over substance. As stated in United States v. Scarf, 551
    F.2d 1124 (8th Cir. 1977), concerning amended Rule 11: "It is a
    salutary rule, and district courts are required to act in
    substantial compliance with it although * * * ritualistic
    compliance is not required." As similarly pointed out in United
    States v. Saft, 558 F.2d 1073 (2d Cir. 1977),
      the Rule does note say that compliance can be achieved only by
      reading the specified items in haec verba. Congress meant to
      strip district judges of freedom to decide what they must explain
      to a defendant who wishes to plead guilty, not to tell them
      precisely how to perform this important task in the great variety
      of cases that would come before them. While a judge who contents
      himself with literal application of the Rule will hardly be
      reversed, it cannot be supposed that Congress preferred this to a
      more meaningful explanation, provided that all the specified
      elements were covered.
      Two important points logically flow from these sound
    observations. One concerns the matter of construing Rule 11: it is
    not to be read as requiring a litany or other ritual which can be
    carried out only by word-for-word adherence to a set "script." The
    other, specifically addressed in new subdivision (h), is that even
    when it may be concluded Rule 11 has not been complied with in all
    respects, it does not inevitably follow that the defendant's plea
    of guilty or nolo contendere is invalid and subject to being
    overturned by any remedial device then available to the defendant.
      Notwithstanding the declaration in Rule 52(a) that "[a]ny error,
    defect, irregularity or variance which does not affect substantial
    rights shall be disregarded," there has existed for some years
    considerable disagreement concerning the applicability of the
    harmless error doctrine to Rule 11 violations. In large part, this
    is attributable to uncertainty as to the continued vitality and the
    reach of McCarthy v. United States, 394 U.S. 459 (1969). In
    McCarthy, involving a direct appeal from a plea of guilty because
    of noncompliance with Rule 11, the Court concluded
      that prejudice inheres in a failure to comply with Rule 11, for
      noncompliance deprives the defendant of the Rule's procedural
      safeguards, which are designed to facilitate a more accurate
      determination of the voluntariness of his plea. Our holding [is]
      that a defendant whose plea has been accepted in violation of
      Rule 11 should be afforded the opportunity to plead anew * * *.
      McCarthy has been most frequently relied upon in cases where, as
    in that case, the defendant sought relief because of a Rule 11
    violation by the avenue of direct appeal. It has been held that in
    such circumstances a defendant's conviction must be reversed
    whenever the "district court accepts his guilty plea without fully
    adhering to the procedure provided for in Rule 11," United States
    v. Boone, 543 F.2d 1090 (4th Cir. 1976), and that in this context
    any reliance by the government on the Rule 52(a) harmless error
    concept "must be rejected." United States v. Journet, 544 F.2d 633
    (2d Cir. 1976). On the other hand, decisions are to be found taking
    a harmless error approach on direct appeal where it appeared the
    nature and extent of the deviation from Rule 11 was such that it
    could not have had any impact on the defendant's decision to plead
    or the fairness in now holding him to his plea. United States v.
    Peters, No. 77-1700 (4th Cir., Dec. 22, 1978) (where judge failed
    to comply fully with Rule 11(c)(1), in that defendant not correctly
    advised of maximum years of special parole term but was told it is
    at least 3 years, and defendant thereafter sentenced to 15 years
    plus 3-year special parole term, government's motion for summary
    affirmance granted, as "the error was harmless"); United States v.
    Coronado, 554 F.2d 166 (5th Cir. 1977) (court first holds that
    charge of conspiracy requires some explanation of what conspiracy
    means to comply with Rule 11(c)(1), but then finds no reversible
    error "because the rule 11 proceeding on its face discloses,
    despite the trial court's failure sufficiently to make the required
    explicitation of the charges, that Coronado understood them").
      But this conflict has not been limited to cases involving nothing
    more than a direct appeal following defendant's plea. For example,
    another type of case is that in which the defendant has based a
    post-sentence motion to withdraw his plea on a Rule 11 violation.
    Rule 32(d) says that such a motion may be granted "to correct
    manifest injustice," and some courts have relied upon this latter
    provision in holding that post-sentence plea withdrawal need not be
    permitted merely because Rule 11 was not fully complied with and
    that instead the district court should hold an evidentiary hearing
    to determine "whether manifest injustice will result if the
    conviction based on the guilty plea is permitted to stand." United
    States v. Scarf, 551 F.2d 1124 (8th Cir. 1977). Others, however,
    have held that McCarthy applies and prevails over the language of
    Rule 32(d), so that "a failure to scrupulously comply with Rule 11
    will invalidate a plea without a showing of manifest injustice."
    United States v. Cantor, 469 F.2d 435 (3d Cir. 1972).
      Disagreement has also existed in the context of collateral attack
    upon pleas pursuant to 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255. On the one hand, it has
    been concluded that "[n]ot every violation of Rule 11 requires that
    the plea be set aside" in a Sec. 2255 proceeding, and that "a
    guilty plea will be set aside on collateral attack only where to
    not do so would result in a miscarriage of justice, or where there
    exists exceptional circumstances justifying such relief." Evers v.
    United States, 579 F.2d 71 (10th Cir. 1978). The contrary view was
    that McCarthy governed in Sec. 2255 proceedings because "the
    Supreme Court hinted at no exceptions to its policy of strict
    enforcement of Rule 11." Timmreck v. United States, 577 F.2d 377
    (6th Cir. 1978). But a unanimous Supreme Court resolved this
    conflict in United States v. Timmreck, 441 U.S. 780 (1979), where
    the Court concluded that the reasoning of Hill v. United States,
    368 U.S. 424 (1962) (ruling a collateral attack could not be
    predicated on a violation of Rule 32(a))
      is equally applicable to a formal violation of Rule 11.* * *
        Indeed, if anything, this case may be a stronger one for
      foreclosing collateral relief than the Hill case. For the concern
      with finality served by the limitation on collateral attack has
      special force with respect to convictions based on guilty pleas.
      "Every inroad on the concept of finality undermines confidence in
      the integrity of our procedures; and, by increasing the volume of
      judicial work, inevitably delays and impairs the orderly
      administration of justice. The impact is greatest when new
      grounds for setting aside guilty pleas are approved because the
      vast majority of criminal convictions result from such pleas.
      Moreover, the concern that unfair procedures may have resulted in
      the conviction of an innocent defendant is only rarely raised by
      a petition to set aside a guilty plea."
      This interest in finality is strongest in the collateral attack
    context the Court was dealing with in Timmreck, which explains why
    the Court there adopted the Hill requirement that in a Sec. 2255
    proceeding the rule violation must amount to "a fundamental defect
    which inherently results in a complete miscarriage of justice" or
    "an omission inconsistent with the rudimentary demands of fair
    procedure." The interest in finality of guilty pleas described in
    Timmreck is of somewhat lesser weight when a direct appeal is
    involved (so that the Hill standard is obviously inappropriate in
    that setting), but yet is sufficiently compelling to make unsound
    the proposition that reversal is required even where it is apparent
    that the Rule 11 violation was of the harmless error variety.
      Though the McCarthy per se rule may have been justified at the
    time and in the circumstances which obtained when the plea in that
    case was taken, this is no longer the case. For one thing, it is
    important to recall that McCarthy dealt only with the much simpler
    pre-1975 version of Rule 11, which required only a brief procedure
    during which the chances of a minor, insignificant and inadvertent
    deviation were relatively slight. This means that the chances of a
    truly harmless error (which was not involved in McCarthy in any
    event, as the judge made no inquiry into the defendant's
    understanding of the nature of the charge, and the government had
    presented only the extreme argument that a court "could properly
    assume that petitioner was entering that plea with a complete
    understanding of the charge against him" merely from the fact he
    had stated he desired to plead guilty) are much greater under
    present Rule 11 than under the version before the Court in
    McCarthy. It also means that the more elaborate and lengthy
    procedures of present Rule 11, again as compared with the version
    applied in McCarthy, make it more apparent than ever that a guilty
    plea is not "a mere gesture, a temporary and meaningless formality
    reversible at the defendant's whim," but rather " 'a grave and
    solemn act,' which is 'accepted only with care and discernment.' "
    United States v. Barker, 514 F.2d 208 (D.C.Cir.1975), quoting from
    Brady v. United States, 397 U.S. 742 (1970). A plea of that
    character should not be overturned, even on direct appeal, when
    there has been a minor and technical violation of Rule 11 which
    amounts to harmless error.
      Secondly, while McCarthy involved a situation in which the
    defendant's plea of guilty was before the court of appeals on
    direct appeal, the Supreme Court appears to have been primarily
    concerned with Sec. 2255-type cases, for the Court referred
    exclusively to cases of that kind in the course of concluding that
    a per se rule was justified as to Rule 11 violations because of
    "the difficulty of achieving [rule 11's] purposes through a post-
    conviction voluntariness hearing." But that reasoning has now been
    substantially undercut by United States v. Timmreck, supra, for the
    Court there concluded Sec. 2255 relief "is not available when all
    that is shown is a failure to comply with the formal requirements
    of the Rule," at least absent "other aggravating circumstances,"
    which presumably could often only be developed in the course of a
    later evidentiary hearing.
      Although all of the aforementioned considerations support the
    policy expressed in new subdivision (h), the Advisory Committee
    does wish to emphasize two important cautionary notes. The first is
    that subdivision (h) should not be read as supporting extreme or
    speculative harmless error claims or as, in effect, nullifying
    important Rule 11 safeguards. There would not be harmless error
    under subdivision (h) where, for example, as in McCarthy, there had
    been absolutely no inquiry by the judge into defendant's
    understanding of the nature of the charge and the harmless error
    claim of the government rests upon nothing more than the assertion
    that it may be "assumed" defendant possessed such understanding
    merely because he expressed a desire to plead guilty. Likewise, it
    would not be harmless error if the trial judge totally abdicated to
    the prosecutor the responsibility for giving to the defendant the
    various Rule 11 warnings, as this "results in the creation of an
    atmosphere of subtle coercion that clearly contravenes the policy
    behind Rule 11." United States v. Crook, 526 F.2d 708 (5th Cir.
    1976).
      Indeed, it is fair to say that the kinds of Rule 11 violations
    which might be found to constitute harmless error upon direct
    appeal are fairly limited, as in such instances the matter "must be
    resolved solely on the basis of the Rule 11 transcript" and the
    other portions (e.g., sentencing hearing) of the limited record
    made in such cases. United States v. Coronado, supra. Illustrative
    are: where the judge's compliance with subdivision (c)(1) was not
    absolutely complete, in that some essential element of the crime
    was not mentioned, but the defendant's responses clearly indicate
    his awareness of that element, see United States v. Coronado,
    supra; where the judge's compliance with subdivision (c)(2) was
    erroneous in part in that the judge understated the maximum penalty
    somewhat, but the penalty actually imposed did not exceed that
    indicated in the warnings, see United States v. Peters, supra; and
    where the judge completely failed to comply with subdivision
    (c)(5), which of course has no bearing on the validity of the plea
    itself, cf. United States v. Sinagub, supra.
      The second cautionary note is that subdivision (h) should not be
    read as an invitation to trial judges to take a more casual
    approach to Rule 11 proceedings. It is still true, as the Supreme
    Court pointed out in McCarthy, that thoughtful and careful
    compliance with Rule 11 best serves the cause of fair and efficient
    administration of criminal justice, as it
      will help reduce the great waste of judicial resources required
      to process the frivolous attacks on guilty plea convictions that
      are encouraged, and are more difficult to dispose of, when the
      original record is inadequate. It is, therefore, not too much to
      require that, before sentencing defendants to years of
      imprisonment, district judges take the few minutes necessary to
      inform them of their rights and to determine whether they
      understand the action they are taking.
    Subdivision (h) makes no change in the responsibilities of the
    judge at Rule 11 proceedings, but instead merely rejects the
    extreme sanction of automatic reversal.
      It must also be emphasized that a harmless error provision has
    been added to Rule 11 because some courts have read McCarthy as
    meaning that the general harmless error provision in Rule 52(a)
    cannot be utilized with respect to Rule 11 proceedings. Thus, the
    addition of subdivision (h) should not be read as suggesting that
    Rule 52(a) does not apply in other circumstances because of the
    absence of a provision comparable to subdivision (h) attached to
    other rules.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (c)(1). Section 5 of the Victim and Witness
    Protection Act of 1982, Pub. L. No. 97-291, 96 Stat. 1248 (1982),
    adds 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3579, providing that when sentencing a
    defendant convicted of a Title 18 offense or of violating various
    subsections of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, the court "may
    order, in addition to or in lieu of any other penalty authorized by
    law, that the defendant make restitution to any victim of the
    offense." Under this law restitution is favored; if the court "does
    not order restitution, or orders only partial restitution, . . .
    the court shall state on the record the reasons therefor." Because
    this restitution is deemed an aspect of the defendant's sentence,
    S. Rept. No. 97-532, 97th Cong., 2d Sess., 30-33 (1982), it is a
    matter about which a defendant tendering a plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere should be advised.
      Because this new legislation contemplates that the amount of the
    restitution to be ordered will be ascertained later in the
    sentencing process, this amendment to Rule 11(c)(1) merely requires
    that the defendant be told of the court's power to order
    restitution. The exact amount or upper limit cannot and need not be
    stated at the time of the plea. Failure of a court to advise a
    defendant of the possibility of a restitution order would
    constitute harmless error under subdivision (h) if no restitution
    were thereafter ordered.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1989 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment mandates that the district court inform a defendant
    that the court is required to consider any applicable guidelines
    but may depart from them under some circumstances. This requirement
    assures that the existence of guidelines will be known to a
    defendant before a plea of guilty or nolo contendere is accepted.
    Since it will be impracticable, if not impossible, to know which
    guidelines will be relevant prior to the formulation of a
    presentence report and resolution of disputed facts, the amendment
    does not require the court to specify which guidelines will be
    important or which grounds for departure might prove to be
    significant. The advice that the court is required to give cannot
    guarantee that a defendant who pleads guilty will not later claim a
    lack of understanding as to the importance of guidelines at the
    time of the plea. No advice is likely to serve as a complete
    protection against post-plea claims of ignorance or confusion. By
    giving the advice, the court places the defendant and defense
    counsel on notice of the importance that guidelines may play in
    sentencing and of the possibility of a departure from those
    guidelines. A defendant represented by competent counsel will be in
    a position to enter an intelligent plea.
      The amended rule does not limit the district court's discretion
    to engage in a more extended colloquy with the defendant in order
    to impart additional information about sentencing guidelines or to
    inquire into the defendant's knowledge concerning guidelines. The
    amended rule sets forth only the minimum advice that must be
    provided to the defendant by the court.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1999 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a). The amendment deletes use of the term
    "corporation" and substitutes in its place the term "organization,"
    with a reference to the definition of that term in 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    18.
      Subdivision (c)(6). Rule 11(c) has been amended specifically to
    reflect the increasing practice of including provisions in plea
    agreements which require the defendant to waive certain appellate
    rights. The increased use of such provisions is due in part to the
    increasing number of direct appeals and collateral reviews
    challenging sentencing decisions. Given the increased use of such
    provisions, the Committee believed it was important to insure that
    first, a complete record exists regarding any waiver provisions,
    and second, that the waiver was voluntarily and knowingly made by
    the defendant. Although a number of federal courts have approved
    the ability of a defendant to enter into such waiver agreements,
    the Committee takes no position on the underlying validity of such
    waivers.
      Subdivision (e). Amendments have been made to Rule 11(e)(1)(B)
    and (C) to reflect the impact of the Sentencing Guidelines on
    guilty pleas. Although Rule 11 is generally silent on the subject,
    it has become clear that the courts have struggled with the subject
    of guideline sentencing vis a vis plea agreements, entry and timing
    of guilty pleas, and the ability of the defendant to withdraw a
    plea of guilty. The amendments are intended to address two specific
    issues.
      First, both subdivisions (e)(1)(B) and (e)(1)(C) have been
    amended to recognize that a plea agreement may specifically address
    not only what amounts to an appropriate sentence, but also a
    sentencing guideline, a sentencing factor, or a policy statement
    accompanying a sentencing guideline or factor. Under an (e)(1)(B)
    agreement, the government, as before, simply agrees to make a
    recommendation to the court, or agrees not to oppose a defense
    request concerning a particular sentence or consideration of a
    sentencing guideline, factor, or policy statement. The amendment
    makes it clear that this type of agreement is not binding on the
    court. Second, under an (e)(1)(C) agreement, the government and
    defense have actually agreed on what amounts to an appropriate
    sentence or have agreed to one of the specified components. The
    amendment also makes it clear that this agreement is binding on the
    court once the court accepts it. As is the situation under the
    current Rule, the court retains absolute discretion whether to
    accept a plea agreement.
      GAP Report - Rule 11. The Committee made no changes to the
    published draft amendments to Rule 11. But it did add language to
    the Committee Note which reflects the view that the amendment is
    not intended to signal its approval of the underlying practice of
    including waiver provisions in pretrial agreements.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 11 has been amended and reorganized as part
    of the general restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more
    easily understood and to make style and terminology consistent
    throughout the rules. These changes are intended to be stylistic
    only, except as noted below.
      Amended Rule 11(b)(1) requires the court to apprise the defendant
    of his or her rights before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere. The Committee determined to expand upon the incomplete
    listing in the current rule of the elements of the "maximum
    possible penalty" and any "mandatory minimum" penalty to include
    advice as to the maximum or minimum term of imprisonment,
    forfeiture, fine, and special assessment, in addition to the two
    types of maximum and minimum penalties presently enumerated:
    restitution and supervised release. The outmoded reference to a
    term of "special parole" has been eliminated.
      Amended Rule 11(b)(2), formerly Rule 11(d), covers the issue of
    determining that the plea is voluntary, and not the result of
    force, threats, or promises (other than those in a plea agreement).
    The reference to an inquiry in current Rule 11(d) whether the plea
    has resulted from plea discussions with the government has been
    deleted. That reference, which was often a source of confusion to
    defendants who were clearly pleading guilty as part of a plea
    agreement with the government, was considered unnecessary.
      Rule 11(c)(1)(A) includes a change, which recognizes a common
    type of plea agreement - that the government will "not bring" other
    charges.
      The Committee considered whether to address the practice in some
    courts of using judges to facilitate plea agreements. The current
    rule states that "the court shall not participate in any
    discussions between the parties concerning such plea agreement."
    Some courts apparently believe that that language acts as a
    limitation only upon the judge taking the defendant's plea and thus
    permits other judges to serve as facilitators for reaching a plea
    agreement between the government and the defendant. See, e.g.,
    United States v. Torres, 999 F.2d 376, 378 (9th Cir. 1993) (noting
    practice and concluding that presiding judge had not participated
    in a plea agreement that had resulted from discussions involving
    another judge). The Committee decided to leave the Rule as it is
    with the understanding that doing so was in no way intended either
    to approve or disapprove the existing law interpreting that
    provision.
      Amended Rules 11(c)(3) to (5) address the topics of
    consideration, acceptance, and rejection of a plea agreement. The
    amendments are not intended to make any change in practice. The
    topics are discussed separately because in the past there has been
    some question about the possible interplay between the court's
    consideration of the guilty plea in conjunction with a plea
    agreement and sentencing and the ability of the defendant to
    withdraw a plea. See United States v. Hyde, 520 U.S. 670 (1997)
    (holding that plea and plea agreement need not be accepted or
    rejected as a single unit; "guilty pleas can be accepted while plea
    agreements are deferred, and the acceptance of the two can be
    separated in time."). Similarly, the Committee decided to more
    clearly spell out in Rule 11(d) and 11(e) the ability of the
    defendant to withdraw a plea. See United States v. Hyde, supra.
      Amended Rule 11(e) is a new provision, taken from current Rule
    32(e), that addresses the finality of a guilty or nolo contendere
    plea after the court imposes sentence. The provision makes it clear
    that it is not possible for a defendant to withdraw a plea after
    sentence is imposed.
      The reference to a "motion under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255" has been
    changed to the broader term "collateral attack" to recognize that
    in some instances a court may grant collateral relief under
    provisions other than Sec. 2255. See United States v. Jeffers, 234
    F.3d 277 (5th Cir. 2000) (petition under Sec. 2241 may be
    appropriate where remedy under Sec. 2255 is ineffective or
    inadequate).
      Currently, Rule 11(e)(5) requires that unless good cause is
    shown, the parties are to give pretrial notice to the court that a
    plea agreement exists. That provision has been deleted. First, the
    Committee believed that although the provision was originally
    drafted to assist judges, under current practice few counsel would
    risk the consequences in the ordinary case of not informing the
    court that an agreement exists. Secondly, the Committee was
    concerned that there might be rare cases where the parties might
    agree that informing the court of the existence of an agreement
    might endanger a defendant or compromise an ongoing investigation
    in a related case. In the end, the Committee believed that, on
    balance, it would be preferable to remove the provision and reduce
    the risk of pretrial disclosure.
      Finally, revised Rule 11(f), which addresses the issue of
    admissibility or inadmissibility of pleas and statements made
    during the plea inquiry, cross references Federal Rule of Evidence
    410.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2007 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b)(1)(M). The amendment conforms Rule 11 to the
    Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220
    (2005). Booker held that the provision of the federal sentencing
    statute that makes the Guidelines mandatory, 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3553(b)(1), violates the Sixth Amendment right to jury trial. With
    this provision severed and excised, the Court held, the Sentencing
    Reform Act "makes the Guidelines effectively advisory," and
    "requires a sentencing court to consider Guidelines ranges, see 18
    U.S.C.A. Sec. 3553(a)(4) (Supp. 2004), but it permits the court to
    tailor the sentence in light of other statutory concerns as well,
    see Sec. 3553(a) (Supp. 2004)." Id. at 245-46. Rule 11(b)(M)
    incorporates this analysis into the information provided to the
    defendant at the time of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made to the text of the proposed amendment as
    released for public comment. One change was made to the Committee
    note. The reference to the Fifth Amendment was deleted from the
    description of the Supreme Court's decision in Booker.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Evidence, referred to in subd. (f), are set
    out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1988 - Subd. (c)(1). Pub. L. 100-690 inserted "or term of
    supervised release" after "special parole term".
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subds. (c) and (e)(1)-(4), (6)
    generally.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1979 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of subd. (e)(6) of this rule by order of the United
    States Supreme Court of Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1, 1980, see
    section 1(1) of Pub. L. 96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 326, set out
    as a note under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    except with respect to the amendment adding subd. (e)(6) of this
    rule, effective Aug. 1, 1975, see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set
    out as a note under rule 4 of these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 12                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 12. Pleadings and Pretrial Motions

-STATUTE-
      (a) Pleadings. The pleadings in a criminal proceeding are the
    indictment, the information, and the pleas of not guilty, guilty,
    and nolo contendere.
      (b) Pretrial Motions.
        (1) In General. Rule 47 applies to a pretrial motion.
        (2) Motions That May Be Made Before Trial. A party may raise by
      pretrial motion any defense, objection, or request that the court
      can determine without a trial of the general issue.
        (3) Motions That Must Be Made Before Trial. The following must
      be raised before trial:
          (A) a motion alleging a defect in instituting the
        prosecution;
          (B) a motion alleging a defect in the indictment or
        information - but at any time while the case is pending, the
        court may hear a claim that the indictment or information fails
        to invoke the court's jurisdiction or to state an offense;
          (C) a motion to suppress evidence;
          (D) a Rule 14 motion to sever charges or defendants; and
          (E) a Rule 16 motion for discovery.

        (4) Notice of the Government's Intent to Use Evidence.
          (A) At the Government's Discretion. At the arraignment or as
        soon afterward as practicable, the government may notify the
        defendant of its intent to use specified evidence at trial in
        order to afford the defendant an opportunity to object before
        trial under Rule 12(b)(3)(C).
          (B) At the Defendant's Request. At the arraignment or as soon
        afterward as practicable, the defendant may, in order to have
        an opportunity to move to suppress evidence under Rule
        12(b)(3)(C), request notice of the government's intent to use
        (in its evidence-in-chief at trial) any evidence that the
        defendant may be entitled to discover under Rule 16.

      (c) Motion Deadline. The court may, at the arraignment or as soon
    afterward as practicable, set a deadline for the parties to make
    pretrial motions and may also schedule a motion hearing.
      (d) Ruling on a Motion. The court must decide every pretrial
    motion before trial unless it finds good cause to defer a ruling.
    The court must not defer ruling on a pretrial motion if the
    deferral will adversely affect a party's right to appeal. When
    factual issues are involved in deciding a motion, the court must
    state its essential findings on the record.
      (e) Waiver of a Defense, Objection, or Request. A party waives
    any Rule 12(b)(3) defense, objection, or request not raised by the
    deadline the court sets under Rule 12(c) or by any extension the
    court provides. For good cause, the court may grant relief from the
    waiver.
      (f) Recording the Proceedings. All proceedings at a motion
    hearing, including any findings of fact and conclusions of law made
    orally by the court, must be recorded by a court reporter or a
    suitable recording device.
        (g) Defendant's Continued Custody or Release Status. If the
      court grants a motion to dismiss based on a defect in instituting
      the prosecution, in the indictment, or in the information, it may
      order the defendant to be released or detained under 18 U.S.C.
      Sec. 3142 for a specified time until a new indictment or
      information is filed. This rule does not affect any federal
      statutory period of limitations.

      (h) Producing Statements at a Suppression Hearing. Rule 26.2
    applies at a suppression hearing under Rule 12(b)(3)(C). At a
    suppression hearing, a law enforcement officer is considered a
    government witness.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec.
    3(11), (12), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 372; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug.
    1, 1983; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec.
    1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. This rule abolishes pleas to the
    jurisdiction, pleas in abatement, demurrers, special pleas in bar,
    and motions to quash. A motion to dismiss or for other appropriate
    relief is substituted for the purpose of raising all defenses and
    objections heretofore interposed in any of the foregoing modes.
    "This should result in a reduction of opportunities for dilatory
    tactics and, at the same time, relieve the defense of
    embarrassment. Many competent practitioners have been baffled and
    mystified by the distinctions between pleas in abatement, pleas in
    bar, demurrers, and motions to quash, and have, at times, found
    difficulty in determining which of these should be invoked." Homer
    Cummings, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 655. See also, Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R.
    (3)1, 4.
      2. A similar change was introduced by the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure (Rule 7(a)) which has proven successful. It is also
    proposed by the A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure (Sec. 209).
      Note to Subdivision (b)(1) and (2). These two paragraphs classify
    into two groups all objections and defenses to be interposed by
    motion prescribed by Rule 12(a). In one group are defenses and
    objections which must be raised by motion, failure to do so
    constituting a waiver. In the other group are defenses and
    objections which at the defendant's option may be raised by motion,
    failure to do so, however, not constituting a waiver. (Cf. Rule 12
    of Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].)
      In the first of these groups are included all defenses and
    objections that are based on defects in the institution of the
    prosecution or in the indictment and information, other than lack
    of jurisdiction or failure to charge an offense. All such defenses
    and objections must be included in a single motion. (Cf. Rule 12(g)
    of Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].) Among
    the defenses and objections in this group are the following:
    Illegal selection or organization of the grand jury,
    disqualification of individual grand jurors, presence of
    unauthorized persons in the grand jury room, other irregularities
    in grand jury proceedings, defects in indictment or information
    other than lack of jurisdiction or failure to state an offense,
    etc. The provision that these defenses and objections are waived if
    not raised by motion substantially continues existing law, as they
    are waived at present unless raised before trial by plea in
    abatement, demurrer, motion to quash, etc.
      In the other group of objections and defenses, which the
    defendant at his option may raise by motion before trial, are
    included all defenses and objections which are capable of
    determination without a trial of the general issue. They include
    such matters as former jeopardy, former conviction, former
    acquittal, statute of limitations, immunity, lack of jurisdiction,
    failure of indictment or information to state an offense, etc. Such
    matters have been heretofore raised by demurrers, special pleas in
    bar and motions to quash.
      Note to Subdivision (b)(3). This rule, while requiring the motion
    to be made before pleading, vests discretionary authority in the
    court to permit the motion to be made within a reasonable time
    thereafter. The rule supersedes 18 U.S.C. 556a [now 3288, 3289],
    fixing a definite limitation of time for pleas in abatement and
    motions to quash. The rule also eliminates the requirement for
    technical withdrawal of a plea if it is desired to interpose a
    preliminary objection or defense after the plea has been entered.
    Under this rule a plea will be permitted to stand in the meantime.
      Note to Subdivision (b)(4). This rule substantially restates
    existing law. It leaves with the court discretion to determine in
    advance of trial defenses and objections raised by motion or to
    defer them for determination at the trial. It preserves the right
    to jury trial in those cases in which the right is given under the
    Constitution or by statute. In all other cases it vests in the
    court authority to determine issues of fact in such manner as the
    court deems appropriate.
      Note to Subdivision (b)(5). 1. The first sentence substantially
    restates existing law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 561 (Indictments and
    presentments; judgment on demurrer), which provides that in case a
    demurrer to an indictment or information is overruled, the judgment
    shall be respondeat ouster.
      2. The last sentence of the rule that "Nothing in this rule shall
    be deemed to affect the provisions of any act of Congress relating
    to periods of limitations" is intended to preserve the provisions
    of statutes which permit a reindictment if the original indictment
    is found defective or is dismissed for other irregularities and the
    statute of limitations has run in the meantime, 18 U.S.C. 587 [now
    3288] (Defective indictment; defect found after period of
    limitations; reindictment); Id. sec. 588 [now 3289] (Defective
    indictment; defect found before period of limitations;
    reindictment); Id. sec. 589 [now 3288, 3289] (Defective indictment;
    defense of limitations to new indictment); Id. sec. 556a [now 3288,
    3289] (Indictments and presentments; objections to drawing or
    qualification of grand jury; time for filing; suspension of statute
    of limitations).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a) remains as it was in the old rule. It "speaks
    only of defenses and objections that prior to the rules could have
    been raised by a plea, demurrer, or motion to quash" (C. Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 191 at p. 397
    (1969)), and this might be interpreted as limiting the scope of the
    rule. However, some courts have assumed that old rule 12 does apply
    to pretrial motions generally, and the amendments to subsequent
    subdivisions of the rule should make clear that the rule is
    applicable to pretrial motion practice generally. (See e.g., rule
    12(b)(3), (4), (5) and rule 41(e).)
      Subdivision (b) is changed to provide for some additional motions
    and requests which must be made prior to trial. Subdivisions (b)(1)
    and (2) are restatements of the old rule.
      Subdivision (b)(3) makes clear that objections to evidence on the
    ground that it was illegally obtained must be raised prior to
    trial. This is the current rule with regard to evidence obtained as
    a result of an illegal search. See rule 41(e); C. Wright, Federal
    Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 673 (1969, Supp. 1971). It is
    also the practice with regard to other forms of illegality such as
    the use of unconstitutional means to obtain a confession. See C.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 673 at p. 108
    (1969). It seems apparent that the same principle should apply
    whatever the claimed basis for the application of the exclusionary
    rule of evidence may be. This is consistent with the court's
    statement in Jones v. United States, 362 U.S. 257, 264, 80 S.Ct.
    725, 4 L.Ed.2d 697 (1960):
      This provision of Rule 41(e), requiring the motion to suppress to
    be made before trial, is a crystallization of decisions of this
    Court requiring that procedure, and is designed to eliminate from
    the trial disputes over police conduct not immediately relevant to
    the question of guilt. (Emphasis added.)
      Subdivision (b)(4) provides for a pretrial request for discovery
    by either the defendant or the government to the extent to which
    such discovery is authorized by rule 16.
      Subdivision (b)(5) provides for a pretrial request for a
    severance as authorized in rule 14.
      Subdivision (c) provides that a time for the making of motions
    shall be fixed at the time of the arraignment or as soon thereafter
    as practicable by court rule or direction of a judge. The rule
    leaves to the individual judge whether the motions may be oral or
    written. This and other amendments to rule 12 are designed to make
    possible and to encourage the making of motions prior to trial,
    whenever possible, and in a single hearing rather than in a series
    of hearings. This is the recommendation of the American Bar
    Association's Committee on Standards Relating to Discovery and
    Procedure Before Trial (Approved Draft, 1970); see especially Secs.
    5.2 and 5.3. It also is the procedure followed in those
    jurisdictions which have used the so-called "omnibus hearing"
    originated by Judge James Carter in the Southern District of
    California. See 4 Defender Newsletter 44 (1967); Miller, The
    Omnibus Hearing - An Experiment in Federal Criminal Discovery, 5
    San Diego L.Rev. 293 (1968); American Bar Association, Standards
    Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial, Appendices B, C,
    and D (Approved Draft, 1970). The omnibus hearing is also being
    used, on an experimental basis, in several other district courts.
    Although the Advisory Committee is of the view that it would be
    premature to write the omnibus hearing procedure into the rules, it
    is of the view that the single pretrial hearing should be made
    possible and its use encouraged by the rules.
      There is a similar trend in state practice. See, e.g., State ex
    rel. Goodchild v. Burke, 27 Wis.2d 244, 133 N.W.2d 753 (1965);
    State ex rel. Rasmussen v. Tahash, 272 Minn. 539, 141 N.W.2d 3
    (1965).
      The rule provides that the motion date be set at "the arraignment
    or as soon thereafter as practicable." This is the practice in some
    federal courts including those using the omnibus hearing. (In order
    to obtain the advantage of the omnibus hearing, counsel routinely
    plead not guilty at the initial arraignment on the information or
    indictment and then may indicate a desire to change the plea to
    guilty following the omnibus hearing. This practice builds a more
    adequate record in guilty plea cases.) The rule further provides
    that the date may be set before the arraignment if local rules of
    court so provide.
      Subdivision (d) provides a mechanism for insuring that a
    defendant knows of the government's intention to use evidence to
    which the defendant may want to object. On some occasions the
    resolution of the admissibility issue prior to trial may be
    advantageous to the government. In these situations the attorney
    for the government can make effective defendant's obligation to
    make his motion to suppress prior to trial by giving defendant
    notice of the government's intention to use certain evidence. For
    example, in United States v. Desist, 384 F.2d 889, 897 (2d Cir.
    1967), the court said:
      Early in the pre-trial proceedings, the Government commendably
    informed both the court and defense counsel that an electronic
    listening device had been used in investigating the case, and
    suggested a hearing be held as to its legality.

    See also the "Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968,"
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 2518(9):
      The contents of any intercepted wire or oral communication or
    evidence derived therefrom shall not be received in evidence or
    otherwise disclosed in any trial, hearing, or other proceeding in a
    Federal or State court unless each party, not less than ten days
    before the trial, hearing, or proceeding, has been furnished with a
    copy of the court order, and accompanying application, under which
    the interception was authorized or approved.
      In cases in which defendant wishes to know what types of evidence
    the government intends to use so that he can make his motion to
    suppress prior to trial, he can request the government to give
    notice of its intention to use specified evidence which the
    defendant is entitled to discover under rule 16. Although the
    defendant is already entitled to discovery of such evidence prior
    to trial under rule 16, rule 12 makes it possible for him to avoid
    the necessity of moving to suppress evidence which the government
    does not intend to use. No sanction is provided for the
    government's failure to comply with the court's order because the
    committee believes that attorneys for the government will in fact
    comply and that judges have ways of insuring compliance. An
    automatic exclusion of such evidence, particularly where the
    failure to give notice was not deliberate, seems to create too
    heavy a burden upon the exclusionary rule of evidence, especially
    when defendant has opportunity for broad discovery under rule 16.
    Compare ABA Project on Standards for Criminal Justice, Standards
    Relating to Electronic Surveillance (Approved Draft, 1971) at p.
    116:
      A failure to comply with the duty of giving notice could lead to
    the suppression of evidence. Nevertheless, the standards make it
    explicit that the rule is intended to be a matter of procedure
    which need not under appropriate circumstances automatically
    dictate that evidence otherwise admissible be suppressed.
      Pretrial notice by the prosecution of its intention to use
    evidence which may be subject to a motion to suppress is
    increasingly being encouraged in state practice. See, e.g., State
    ex rel. Goodchild v. Burke, 27 Wis.2d 244, 264, 133 N.W.2d 753, 763
    (1965):
      In the interest of better administration of criminal justice we
    suggest that wherever practicable the prosecutor should within a
    reasonable time before trial notify the defense as to whether any
    alleged confession or admission will be offered in evidence at the
    trial. We also suggest, in cases where such notice is given by the
    prosecution, that the defense, if it intends to attack the
    confession or admission as involuntary, notify the prosecutor of a
    desire by the defense for a special determination on such issue.
      See also State ex rel. Rasmussen v. Tahash, 272 Minn. 539, 553-
    556, 141 N.W.2d 3, 13-15 (1965):
      At the time of arraignment when a defendant pleads not guilty, or
    as soon as possible thereafter, the state will advise the court as
    to whether its case against the defendant will include evidence
    obtained as the result of a search and seizure; evidence discovered
    because of a confession or statements in the nature of a confession
    obtained from the defendant; or confessions or statements in the
    nature of confessions.
      Upon being so informed, the court will formally advise the
    attorney for the defendant (or the defendant himself if he refuses
    legal counsel) that he may, if he chooses, move the court to
    suppress the evidence so secured or the confession so obtained if
    his contention is that such evidence was secured or confession
    obtained in violation of defendant's constitutional rights. * * *
      The procedure which we have outlined deals only with evidence
    obtained as the result of a search and seizure and evidence
    consisting of or produced by confession on the part of the
    defendant. However, the steps which have been suggested as a method
    of dealing with evidence of this type will indicate to counsel and
    to the trial courts that the pretrial consideration of other
    evidentiary problems, the resolution of which is needed to assure
    the integrity of the trial when conducted, will be most useful and
    that this court encourages the use of such procedures whenever
    practical.
      Subdivision (e) provides that the court shall rule on a pretrial
    motion before trial unless the court orders that it be decided upon
    at the trial of the general issue or after verdict. This is the old
    rule. The reference to issues which must be tried by the jury is
    dropped as unnecessary, without any intention of changing current
    law or practice. The old rule begs the question of when a jury
    decision is required at the trial, providing only that a jury is
    necessary if "required by the Constitution or an act of Congress."
    It will be observed that subdivision (e) confers general authority
    to defer the determination of any pretrial motion until after
    verdict. However, in the case of a motion to suppress evidence the
    power should be exercised in the light of the possibility that if
    the motion is ultimately granted a retrial of the defendant may not
    be permissible.
      Subdivision (f) provides that a failure to raise the objections
    or make the requests specified in subdivision (b) constitutes a
    waiver thereof, but the court is allowed to grant relief from the
    waiver if adequate cause is shown. See C. Wright, Federal Practice
    and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 192 (1969), where it is pointed out
    that the old rule is unclear as to whether the waiver results only
    from a failure to raise the issue prior to trial or from the
    failure to do so at the time fixed by the judge for a hearing. The
    amendment makes clear that the defendant and, where appropriate,
    the government have an obligation to raise the issue at the motion
    date set by the judge pursuant to subdivision (c).
      Subdivision (g) requires that a verbatim record be made of
    pretrial motion proceedings and requires the judge to make a record
    of his findings of fact and conclusions of law. This is desirable
    if pretrial rulings are to be subject to post-conviction review on
    the record. The judge may find and rule orally from the bench, so
    long as a verbatim record is taken. There is no necessity of a
    separate written memorandum containing the judge's findings and
    conclusions.
      Subdivision (h) is essentially old rule 12(b)(5) except for the
    deletion of the provision that defendant may plead if the motion is
    determined adversely to him or, if he has already entered a plea,
    that that plea stands. This language seems unnecessary particularly
    in light of the experience in some district courts where a pro
    forma plea of not guilty is entered at the arraignment, pretrial
    motions are later made, and depending upon the outcome the
    defendant may then change his plea to guilty or persist in his plea
    of not guilty.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 12 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with pretrial motions and
    pleadings. The Supreme Court proposed several amendments to it. The
    more significant of these are set out below.
      Subdivision (b) as proposed to be amended provides that the
    pretrial motions may be oral or written, at the court's discretion.
    It also provides that certain types of motions must be made before
    trial.
      Subdivision (d) as proposed to be amended provides that the
    government, either on its own or in response to a request by the
    defendant, must notify the defendant of its intention to use
    certain evidence in order to give the defendant an opportunity
    before trial to move to suppress that evidence.
      Subdivision (e) as proposed to be amended permits the court to
    defer ruling on a pretrial motion until the trial of the general
    issue or until after verdict.
      Subdivision (f) as proposed to be amended provides that the
    failure before trial to file motions or requests or to raise
    defenses which must be filed or raised prior to trial, results in a
    waiver. However, it also provides that the court, for cause shown,
    may grant relief from the waiver.
      Subdivision (g) as proposed to be amended requires that a
    verbatim record be made of the pretrial motion proceedings and that
    the judge make a record of his findings of fact and conclusions of
    law.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee modified subdivision (e) to
    permit the court to defer its ruling on a pretrial motion until
    after the trial only for good cause. Moreover, the court cannot
    defer its ruling if to do so will adversely affect a party's right
    to appeal. The Committee believes that the rule proposed by the
    Supreme Court could deprive the government of its appeal rights
    under statutes like section 3731 of title 18 of the United States
    Code. Further, the Committee hopes to discourage the tendency to
    reserve rulings on pretrial motions until after verdict in the hope
    that the jury's verdict will make a ruling unnecessary.
      The Committee also modified subdivision (h), which deals with
    what happens when the court grants a pretrial motion based upon a
    defect in the institution of the prosecution or in the indictment
    or information. The Committee's change provides that when such a
    motion is granted, the court may order that the defendant be
    continued in custody or that his bail be continued for a specified
    time. A defendant should not automatically be continued in custody
    when such a motion is granted. In order to continue the defendant
    in custody, the court must not only determine that there is
    probable cause, but it must also determine, in effect, that there
    is good cause to have the defendant arrested.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (i). As noted in the recent decision of
    United States v. Raddatz, 447 U.S. 667 (1980), hearings on pretrial
    suppression motions not infrequently necessitate a determination of
    the credibility of witnesses. In such a situation, it is
    particularly important, as also highlighted by Raddatz, that the
    record include some other evidence which tends to either verify or
    controvert the assertions of the witness. (This is especially true
    in light of the Raddatz holding that a district judge, in order to
    make an independent evaluation of credibility, is not required to
    rehear testimony on which a magistrate based his findings and
    recommendations following a suppression hearing before the
    magistrate.) One kind of evidence which can often fulfill this
    function is prior statements of the testifying witness, yet courts
    have consistently held that in light of the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3500, such production of statements cannot be compelled at a
    pretrial suppression hearing. United States v. Spagnuolo, 515 F.2d
    818 (9th Cir. 1975); United States v. Sebastian, 497 F.2d 1267 (2nd
    Cir. 1974); United States v. Montos, 421 F.2d 215 (5th Cir. 1970).
    This result, which finds no express Congressional approval in the
    legislative history of the Jencks Act, see United States v.
    Sebastian, supra; United States v. Covello, 410 F.2d 536 (2d Cir.
    1969), would be obviated by new subdivision (i) of rule 12.
      This change will enhance the accuracy of the factual
    determinations made in the context of pretrial suppression
    hearings. As noted in United States v. Sebastian, supra, it can be
    argued
      most persuasively that the case for pre-trial disclosure is
      strongest in the framework of a suppression hearing. Since
      findings at such a hearing as to admissibility of challenged
      evidence will often determine the result at trial and, at least
      in the case of fourth amendment suppression motions, cannot be
      relitigated later before the trier of fact, pre-trial production
      of the statements of witnesses would aid defense counsel's
      impeachment efforts at perhaps the most crucial point in the
      case. * * * [A] government witness at the suppression hearing may
      not appear at trial so that defendants could never test his
      credibility with the benefits of Jencks Act material.
      The latter statement is certainly correct, for not infrequently a
    police officer who must testify on a motion to suppress as to the
    circumstances of an arrest or search will not be called at trial
    because he has no information necessary to the determination of
    defendant's guilt. See, e.g., United States v. Spagnuolo, supra
    (dissent notes that "under the prosecution's own admission, it did
    not intend to produce at trial the witnesses called at the pre-
    trial suppression hearing"). Moreover, even if that person did
    testify at the trial, if that testimony went to a different subject
    matter, then under rule 26.2(c) only portions of prior statements
    covering the same subject matter need be produced, and thus
    portions which might contradict the suppression hearing testimony
    would not be revealed. Thus, while it may be true, as declared in
    United States v. Montos, supra, that "due process does not require
    premature production at pre-trial hearings on motions to suppress
    of statements ultimately subject to discovery under the Jencks
    Act," the fact of the matter is that those statements - or, the
    essential portions thereof - are not necessarily subject to later
    discovery.
      Moreover, it is not correct to assume that somehow the problem
    can be solved by leaving the suppression issue "open" in some
    fashion for resolution once the trial is under way, at which time
    the prior statements will be produced. In United States v.
    Spagnuolo, supra, the court responded to the defendant's dilemma of
    inaccessible prior statements by saying that the suppression motion
    could simply be deferred until trial. But, under the current
    version of rule 12 this is not possible; subdivision (b) declares
    that motions to suppress "must" be made before trial, and
    subdivision (e) says such motions cannot be deferred for
    determination at trial "if a party's right to appeal is adversely
    affected," which surely is the case as to suppression motions. As
    for the possibility of the trial judge reconsidering the motion to
    suppress on the basis of prior statements produced at trial and
    casting doubt on the credibility of a suppression hearing witness,
    it is not a desirable or adequate solution. For one thing, as
    already noted, there is no assurance that the prior statements will
    be forthcoming. Even if they are, it is not efficient to delay the
    continuation of the trial to undertake a reconsideration of matters
    which could have been resolved in advance of trial had the critical
    facts then been available. Furthermore, if such reconsideration is
    regularly to be expected of the trial judge, then this would give
    rise on appeal to unnecessary issues of the kind which confronted
    the court in United States v. Montos, supra - whether the trial
    judge was obligated either to conduct a new hearing or to make a
    new determination in light of the new evidence.
      The second sentence of subdivision (i) provides that a law
    enforcement officer is to be deemed a witness called by the
    government. This means that when such a federal, state or local
    officer has testified at a suppression hearing, the defendant will
    be entitled to any statement of the officer in the possession of
    the government and relating to the subject matter concerning which
    the witness has testified, without regard to whether the officer
    was in fact called by the government or the defendant. There is
    considerable variation in local practice as to whether the
    arresting or searching officer is considered the witness of the
    defendant or of the government, but the need for the prior
    statement exists in either instance.
      The second sentence of subdivision (i) also provides that upon a
    claim of privilege the court is to excise the privileged matter
    before turning over the statement. The situation most likely to
    arise is that in which the prior statement of the testifying
    officer identifies an informant who supplied some or all of the
    probable cause information to the police. Under McCray v. Illinois,
    386 U.S. 300 (1967), it is for the judge who hears the motion to
    decide whether disclosure of the informant's identity is necessary
    in the particular case. Of course, the government in any case may
    prevent disclosure of the informant's identity by terminating
    reliance upon information from that informant.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (i) is one of a series of
    contemporaneous amendments to Rules 26.2, 32(f), 32.1, 46, and Rule
    8 of the Rules Governing Sec. 2255 Hearings, which extended Rule
    26.2, Production of Witness Statements, to other proceedings or
    hearings conducted under the Rules of Criminal Procedure. Rule
    26.2(c) now explicitly states that the trial court may excise
    privileged matter from the requested witness statements. That
    change rendered similar language in Rule 12(i) redundant.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 12 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The last sentence of current Rule 12(a), referring to the
    elimination of "all other pleas, and demurrers and motions to
    quash" has been deleted as unnecessary.
      Rule 12(b) is modified to more clearly indicate that Rule 47
    governs any pretrial motions filed under Rule 12, including form
    and content. The new provision also more clearly delineates those
    motions that must be filed pretrial and those that may be filed
    pretrial. No change in practice is intended.
      Rule 12(b)(4) is composed of what is currently Rule 12(d). The
    Committee believed that that provision, which addresses the
    government's requirement to disclose discoverable information for
    the purpose of facilitating timely defense objections and motions,
    was more appropriately associated with the pretrial motions
    specified in Rule 12(b)(3).
      Rule 12(c) includes a non-stylistic change. The reference to the
    "local rule" exception has been deleted to make it clear that
    judges should be encouraged to set deadlines for motions. The
    Committee believed that doing so promotes more efficient case
    management, especially when there is a heavy docket of pending
    cases. Although the rule permits some discretion in setting a date
    for motion hearings, the Committee believed that doing so at an
    early point in the proceedings would also promote judicial economy.
      Moving the language in current Rule 12(d) caused the relettering
    of the subdivisions following Rule 12(c).
      Although amended Rule 12(e) is a revised version of current Rule
    12(f), the Committee intends to make no change in the current law
    regarding waivers of motions or defenses.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subds. (e) and (h) generally.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 12.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 12.1. Notice of an Alibi Defense

-STATUTE-
      (a) Government's Request for Notice and Defendant's Response.
        (1) Government's Request. An attorney for the government may
      request in writing that the defendant notify an attorney for the
      government of any intended alibi defense. The request must state
      the time, date, and place of the alleged offense.
        (2) Defendant's Response. Within 14 days after the request, or
      at some other time the court sets, the defendant must serve
      written notice on an attorney for the government of any intended
      alibi defense. The defendant's notice must state:
          (A) each specific place where the defendant claims to have
        been at the time of the alleged offense; and
          (B) the name, address, and telephone number of each alibi
        witness on whom the defendant intends to rely.

      (b) Disclosing Government Witnesses.
        (1) Disclosure.
          (A) In General. If the defendant serves a Rule 12.1(a)(2)
        notice, an attorney for the government must disclose in writing
        to the defendant or the defendant's attorney:
            (i) the name of each witness - and the address and
          telephone number of each witness other than a victim - that
          the government intends to rely on to establish that the
          defendant was present at the scene of the alleged offense;
          and
            (ii) each government rebuttal witness to the defendant's
          alibi defense.

          (B) Victim's Address and Telephone Number. If the government
        intends to rely on a victim's testimony to establish that the
        defendant was present at the scene of the alleged offense and
        the defendant establishes a need for the victim's address and
        telephone number, the court may:
            (i) order the government to provide the information in
          writing to the defendant or the defendant's attorney; or
            (ii) fashion a reasonable procedure that allows preparation
          of the defense and also protects the victim's interests.

        (2) Time to Disclose. Unless the court directs otherwise, an
      attorney for the government must give its Rule 12.1(b)(1)
      disclosure within 14 days after the defendant serves notice of an
      intended alibi defense under Rule 12.1(a)(2), but no later than
      14 days before trial.

      (c) Continuing Duty to Disclose.
        (1) In General. Both an attorney for the government and the
      defendant must promptly disclose in writing to the other party
      the name of each additional witness - and the address and
      telephone number of each additional witness other than a victim -
      if:
          (A) the disclosing party learns of the witness before or
        during trial; and
          (B) the witness should have been disclosed under Rule 12.1(a)
        or (b) if the disclosing party had known of the witness
        earlier.

        (2) Address and Telephone Number of an Additional Victim
      Witness. The address and telephone number of an additional victim
      witness must not be disclosed except as provided in Rule 12.1
      (b)(1)(B).

      (d) Exceptions. For good cause, the court may grant an exception
    to any requirement of Rule 12.1(a)-(c).
      (e) Failure to Comply. If a party fails to comply with this rule,
    the court may exclude the testimony of any undisclosed witness
    regarding the defendant's alibi. This rule does not limit the
    defendant's right to testify.
      (f) Inadmissibility of Withdrawn Intention. Evidence of an
    intention to rely on an alibi defense, later withdrawn, or of a
    statement made in connection with that intention, is not, in any
    civil or criminal proceeding, admissible against the person who
    gave notice of the intention.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; amended Pub. L. 94-64,
    Sec. 3(13), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 372; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug.
    1, 1985; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec.
    1, 2002; Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec.
    1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974            
      Rule 12.1 is new. See rule 87 of the United States District Court
    Rules for the District of Columbia for a somewhat comparable
    provision.
      The Advisory Committee has dealt with the issue of notice of
    alibi on several occasions over the course of the past three
    decades. In the Preliminary Draft of the Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure, 1943, and the Second Preliminary Draft, 1944, an alibi-
    notice rule was proposed. But the Advisory Committee was closely
    divided upon whether there should be a rule at all and, if there
    were to be a rule, what the form of the rule should be. Orfield,
    The Preliminary Draft of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
    22 Texas L.Rev. 37, 57-58 (1943). The principal disagreement was
    whether the prosecutor or the defendant should initiate the
    process. The Second Preliminary Draft published in 1944 required
    the defendant to initiate the process by a motion to require the
    government to state with greater particularity the time and place
    it would rely on. Upon receipt of this information, defendant was
    required to give his notice of alibi. This formulation was
    "vehemently objected" to by five members of the committee (out of a
    total of eighteen) and two alternative rule proposals were
    submitted to the Supreme Court. Both formulations - one requiring
    the prosecutor to initiate the process, the other requiring the
    defendant to initiate the process - were rejected by the Court. See
    Epstein, Advance Notice of Alibi, 55 J.Crim.L., C. & P.S. 29, 30
    (1964), in which the view is expressed that the unresolved split
    over the rule "probably caused" the court to reject an alibi-notice
    rule.
      Rule 12.1 embodies an intermediate position. The initial burden
    is upon the defendant to raise the defense of alibi, but he need
    not specify the details of his alibi defense until the government
    specifies the time, place, and date of alleged offense. Each party
    must, at the appropriate time, disclose the names and addresses of
    witnesses.
      In 1962 the Advisory Committee drafted an alibi-notice rule and
    included it in the Preliminary Draft of December 1962, rule 12A at
    pp. 5-6. This time the Advisory Committee withdrew the rule without
    submitting it to the Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and
    Procedure. Wright, Proposed Changes in Federal Civil, Criminal, and
    Appellate Procedure, 35 F.R.D. 317, 326 (1964). Criticism of the
    December 1962 alibi-notice rule centered on constitutional
    questions and questions of general fairness to the defendant. See
    Everett, Discovery in Criminal Cases - In Search of a Standard,
    1964 Duke L.J. 477, 497-499.
      Doubts about the constitutionality of a notice-of-alibi rule were
    to some extent resolved by Williams v. Florida, 399 U.S. 78, 90
    S.Ct. 1893, 26 L.Ed.2d 446 (1970). In that case the court sustained
    the constitutionality of the Florida notice-of-alibi statute, but
    left unresolved two important questions.
      (1) The court said that it was not holding that a notice-of-alibi
    requirement was valid under conditions where a defendant does not
    enjoy "reciprocal discovery against the State." 399 U.S. at 82 n.
    11, 90 S.Ct. 1893. Under the revision of rule 16, the defendant is
    entitled to substantially enlarged discovery in federal cases, and
    it would seem appropriate to conclude that the rules will comply
    with the "reciprocal discovery" qualification of the Williams
    decision. [See, Wardius v. Oregon, 412 U.S. 470, 93 S.Ct. 2208, 37
    L.Ed.2d 82 (1973) was decided after the approval of proposed Rule
    12.1 by the Judicial Conference of the United States. In that case
    the Court held the Oregon Notice-of-Alibi statute unconstitutional
    because of the failure to give the defendant adequate reciprocal
    discovery rights.]
      (2) The court said that it did not consider the question of the
    "validity of the threatened sanction, had petitioner chosen not to
    comply with the notice-of-alibi rule." 399 U.S. at 83 n. 14, 90
    S.Ct. 1893. This issue remains unresolved. [See Wardius v. Oregon,
    412 U.S. at 472, Note 4, 93 S.Ct. 2208.] Rule 12.1(e) provides that
    the court may exclude the testimony of any witness whose name has
    not been disclosed pursuant to the requirements of the rule. The
    defendant may, however, testify himself. Prohibiting from
    testifying a witness whose name was not disclosed is a common
    provision in state statutes. See Epstein, supra, at 35. It is
    generally assumed that the sanction is essential if the notice-of-
    alibi rule is to have practical significance. See Epstein, supra,
    at 36. The use of the term "may" is intended to make clear that the
    judge may allow the alibi witness to testify if, under the
    particular circumstances, there is cause shown for the failure to
    conform to the requirements of the rules. This is further
    emphasized by subdivision (f) which provides for exceptions
    whenever "good cause" is shown for the exception.
      The Supreme Court of Illinois recently upheld an Illinois statute
    which requires a defendant to give notice of his alibi witnesses
    although the prosecution is not required to disclose its alibi
    rebuttal witnesses. People v. Holiday, 47 Ill.2d 300, 265 N.E.2d
    634 (1970). Because the defense complied with the requirement, the
    court did not have to consider the propriety of penalizing
    noncompliance.
      The requirement of notice of alibi seems to be an increasingly
    common requirement of state criminal procedure. State statutes and
    court rules are cited in 399 U.S. at 82 n. 11, 90 S.Ct. 1893. See
    also Epstein, supra.
      Rule 12.1 will serve a useful purpose even though rule 16 now
    requires disclosure of the names and addresses of government and
    defense witnesses. There are cases in which the identity of defense
    witnesses may be known, but it may come as a surprise to the
    government that they intend to testify as to an alibi and there may
    be no advance notice of the details of the claimed alibi. The
    result often is an unnecessary interruption and delay in the trial
    to enable the government to conduct an appropriate investigation.
    The objective of rule 12.1 is to prevent this by providing a
    mechanism which will enable the parties to have specific
    information in advance of trial to prepare to meet the issue of
    alibi during the trial.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 12.1 is a new
    rule that deals with the defense of alibi. It provides that a
    defendant must notify the government of his intention to rely upon
    the defense of alibi. Upon receipt of such notice, the government
    must advise the defendant of the specific time, date, and place at
    which the offense is alleged to have been committed. The defendant
    must then inform the government of the specific place at which he
    claims to have been when the offense is alleged to have been
    committed, and of the names and addresses of the witnesses on whom
    he intends to rely to establish his alibi. The government must then
    inform the defendant of the names and addresses of the witnesses on
    whom it will rely to establish the defendant's presence at the
    scene of the crime. If either party fails to comply with the
    provisions of the rule, the court may exclude the testimony of any
    witness whose identity is not disclosed. The rule does not attempt
    to limit the right of the defendant to testify in his own behalf.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee disagrees with the defendant-
    triggered procedures of the rule proposed by the Supreme Court.
    The major purpose of a notice-of-alibi rule is to prevent unfair
    surprise to the prosecution. The Committee, therefore, believes
    that it should be up to the prosecution to trigger the alibi
    defense discovery procedures. If the prosecution is worried about
    being surprised by an alibi defense, it can trigger the alibi
    defense discovery procedures. If the government fails to trigger
    the procedures and if the defendant raises an alibi defense at
    trial, then the government cannot claim surprise and get a
    continuance of the trial.
      The Committee has adopted a notice-of-alibi rule similar to the
    one now used in the District of Columbia. [See Rule 2-5(b) of the
    Rules of the United States District Court for the District of
    Columbia. See also Rule 16-1 of the Rules of Criminal Procedure for
    the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.] The rule is
    prosecution-triggered. If the prosecutor notifies the defendant of
    the time, place, and date of the alleged offense, then the
    defendant has 10 days in which to notify the prosecutor of his
    intention to rely upon an alibi defense, specify where he claims to
    have been at the time of the alleged offense, and provide a list of
    his alibi witnesses. The prosecutor, within 10 days but no later
    than 10 days before trial, must then provide the defendant with a
    list of witnesses who will place the defendant at the scene of the
    alleged crime and those witnesses who will be used to rebut the
    defendant's alibi witnesses.
      The Committee's rule does not operate only to the benefit of the
    prosecution. In fact, its rule will provide the defendant with more
    information than the rule proposed by the Supreme Court. The rule
    proposed by the Supreme Court permits the defendant to obtain a
    list of only those witnesses who will place him at the scene of the
    crime. The defendant, however, would get the names of these
    witnesses anyway as part of his discovery under Rule 16(a)(1)(E).
    The Committee rule not only requires the prosecution to provide the
    names of witnesses who place the defendant at the scene of the
    crime, but it also requires the prosecution to turn over the names
    of those witnesses who will be called in rebuttal to the
    defendant's alibi witnesses. This is information that the defendant
    is not otherwise entitled to discover.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (f). This clarifying amendment is intended to
    serve the same purpose as a comparable change made in 1979 to
    similar language in Rule 11(e)(6). The change makes it clear that
    evidence of a withdrawn intent or of statements made in connection
    therewith is thereafter inadmissible against the person who gave
    the notice in any civil or criminal proceeding, without regard to
    whether the proceeding is against that person.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 12.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Current Rules 12.1(d) and 12.1(e) have been switched in the
    amended rule to improve the organization of the rule.
      Finally, the amended rule includes a new requirement that in
    providing the names and addresses of alibi and any rebuttal
    witnesses, the parties must also provide the phone numbers of those
    witnesses. See Rule 12.1(a)(2), Rule 12.1(b)(1), and Rule 12.1(c).
    The Committee believed that requiring such information would
    facilitate locating and interviewing those witnesses.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivisions (b) and (c). The amendment implements the Crime
    Victims' Rights Act, which states that victims have the right to be
    reasonably protected from the accused and to be treated with
    respect for the victim's dignity and privacy. See 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(1) & (8). The rule provides that a victim's address and
    telephone number should not automatically be provided to the
    defense when an alibi defense is raised. If a defendant establishes
    a need for this information, the court has discretion to order its
    disclosure or to fashion an alternative procedure that provides the
    defendant with the information necessary to prepare a defense, but
    also protects the victim's interests.
      In the case of victims who will testify concerning an alibi
    claim, the same procedures and standards apply to both the
    prosecutor's initial disclosure and the prosecutor's continuing
    duty to disclose under subdivision (c).
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The Committee made very minor changes in the text at the suggestion
    of the Style Consultant. The Committee revised the Note in response
    to public comments, omitting the suggestion that the court might
    upon occasion have the defendant and victim meet.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The times set in the former rule at 10 days have been revised to
    14 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended Rule 12.1 generally.

         EFFECTIVE DATE OF RULE; EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS     
      This rule, and the amendments of this rule made by section 3 of
    Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975, see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-
    64, set out as a note under rule 4 of these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 12.2                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 12.2. Notice of an Insanity Defense; Mental Examination

-STATUTE-
      (a) Notice of an Insanity Defense. A defendant who intends to
    assert a defense of insanity at the time of the alleged offense
    must so notify an attorney for the government in writing within the
    time provided for filing a pretrial motion, or at any later time
    the court sets, and file a copy of the notice with the clerk. A
    defendant who fails to do so cannot rely on an insanity defense.
    The court may, for good cause, allow the defendant to file the
    notice late, grant additional trial-preparation time, or make other
    appropriate orders.
      (b) Notice of Expert Evidence of a Mental Condition. If a
    defendant intends to introduce expert evidence relating to a mental
    disease or defect or any other mental condition of the defendant
    bearing on either (1) the issue of guilt or (2) the issue of
    punishment in a capital case, the defendant must - within the time
    provided for filing a pretrial motion or at any later time the
    court sets - notify an attorney for the government in writing of
    this intention and file a copy of the notice with the clerk. The
    court may, for good cause, allow the defendant to file the notice
    late, grant the parties additional trial-preparation time, or make
    other appropriate orders.
      (c) Mental Examination.
        (1) Authority to Order an Examination; Procedures.
          (A) The court may order the defendant to submit to a
        competency examination under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4241.
          (B) If the defendant provides notice under Rule 12.2(a), the
        court must, upon the government's motion, order the defendant
        to be examined under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4242. If the defendant
        provides notice under Rule 12.2(b) the court may, upon the
        government's motion, order the defendant to be examined under
        procedures ordered by the court.

        (2) Disclosing Results and Reports of Capital Sentencing
      Examination. The results and reports of any examination conducted
      solely under Rule 12.2(c)(1) after notice under Rule 12.2(b)(2)
      must be sealed and must not be disclosed to any attorney for the
      government or the defendant unless the defendant is found guilty
      of one or more capital crimes and the defendant confirms an
      intent to offer during sentencing proceedings expert evidence on
      mental condition.
        (3) Disclosing Results and Reports of the Defendant's Expert
      Examination. After disclosure under Rule 12.2(c)(2) of the
      results and reports of the government's examination, the
      defendant must disclose to the government the results and reports
      of any examination on mental condition conducted by the
      defendant's expert about which the defendant intends to introduce
      expert evidence.
        (4) Inadmissibility of a Defendant's Statements. No statement
      made by a defendant in the course of any examination conducted
      under this rule (whether conducted with or without the
      defendant's consent), no testimony by the expert based on the
      statement, and no other fruits of the statement may be admitted
      into evidence against the defendant in any criminal proceeding
      except on an issue regarding mental condition on which the
      defendant:
          (A) has introduced evidence of incompetency or evidence
        requiring notice under Rule 12.2(a) or (b)(1), or
          (B) has introduced expert evidence in a capital sentencing
        proceeding requiring notice under Rule 12.2(b)(2).

      (d) Failure to Comply.
        (1) Failure to Give Notice or to Submit to Examination. The
      court may exclude any expert evidence from the defendant on the
      issue of the defendant's mental disease, mental defect, or any
      other mental condition bearing on the defendant's guilt or the
      issue of punishment in a capital case if the defendant fails to:
          (A) give notice under Rule 12.2(b); or
          (B) submit to an examination when ordered under Rule 12.2(c).

        (2) Failure to Disclose. The court may exclude any expert
      evidence for which the defendant has failed to comply with the
      disclosure requirement of Rule 12.2(c)(3).

      (e) Inadmissibility of Withdrawn Intention. Evidence of an
    intention as to which notice was given under Rule 12.2(a) or (b),
    later withdrawn, is not, in any civil or criminal proceeding,
    admissible against the person who gave notice of the intention.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; amended Pub. L. 94-64,
    Sec. 3(14), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 373; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug.
    1, 1983; Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 404, Oct. 12, 1984, 98
    Stat. 2067; Pub. L. 98-596, Sec. 11(a), (b), Oct. 30, 1984, 98
    Stat. 3138; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Pub. L. 99-646, Sec.
    24, Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3597; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987;
    Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1,
    2005.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974            
      Rule 12.2 is designed to require a defendant to give notice prior
    to trial of his intention (1) to rely upon the defense of insanity
    or (2) to introduce expert testimony of mental disease or defect on
    the theory that such mental condition is inconsistent with the
    mental state required for the offense charged. This rule does not
    deal with the issue of mental competency to stand trial.
      The objective is to give the government time to prepare to meet
    the issue, which will usually require reliance upon expert
    testimony. Failure to give advance notice commonly results in the
    necessity for a continuance in the middle of a trial, thus
    unnecessarily delaying the administration of justice.
      A requirement that the defendant give notice of his intention to
    rely upon the defense of insanity was proposed by the Advisory
    Committee in the Second Preliminary Draft of Proposed Amendments
    (March 1964), rule 12.1, p. 7. The objective of the 1964 proposal
    was explained in a brief Advisory Committee Note:
      Under existing procedure although insanity is a defense, once it
    is raised the burden to prove sanity beyond a reasonable doubt
    rests with the government. Davis v. United States, 160 U.S. 469, 16
    S.Ct. 353, 40 L.Ed. 499 (1895). This rule requires pretrial notice
    to the government of an insanity defense, thus permitting it to
    prepare to meet the issue. Furthermore, in Lynch v. Overholser, 369
    U.S. 705, 82 S.Ct. 1063, 8 L.Ed.2d 211 (1962), the Supreme Court
    held that, at least in the face of a mandatory commitment statute,
    the defendant had a right to determine whether or not to raise the
    issue of insanity. The rule gives the defendant a method of raising
    the issue and precludes any problem of deciding whether or not the
    defendant relied on insanity.
      The Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure decided
    not to recommend the proposed Notice of Insanity rule to the
    Supreme Court. Reasons were not given.
      Requiring advance notice of the defense of insanity is commonly
    recommended as a desirable procedure. The Working Papers of the
    National Commission on Reform of Federal Criminal Laws, Vol. 1, p.
    254 (1970), state in part:
          It is recommended that procedural reform provide for advance
        notice that evidence of mental disease or defect will be relied
        upon in defense. . . .
      Requiring advance notice is proposed also by the American Law
    Institute's Model Penal Code, Sec. 4.03 (P.O.D. 1962). The
    commentary in Tentative Draft No. 4 at 193-194 (1955) indicates
    that, as of that time, six states required pretrial notice and an
    additional eight states required that the defense of insanity be
    specially pleaded.
      For recent state statutes see N.Y. CPL Sec. 250.10 (McKinney's
    Consol. Laws, c. 11-A, 1971) enacted in 1970 which provides that no
    evidence by a defendant of a mental disease negativing criminal
    responsibility shall be allowed unless defendant has served notice
    on the prosecutor of his intention to rely upon such defense. See
    also New Jersey Penal Code (Final Report of the New Jersey Criminal
    Law Revision Commission, Oct. 1971) Sec. 2c: 4-3; New Jersey Court
    Rule 3:12; State v. Whitlow, 45 N.J. 3, 22 n. 3, 210 T.2d 763
    (1965), holding the requirement of notice to be both appropriate
    and not in violation of the privilege against self-incrimination.
      Subdivision (a) deals with notice of the "defense of insanity."
    In this context the term insanity has a well-understood meaning.
    See, e.g., Tydings, A Federal Verdict of Not Guilty by Reason of
    Insanity and a Subsequent Commitment Procedure, 27 Md.L.Rev. 131
    (1967). Precisely how the defense of insanity is phrased does,
    however, differ somewhat from circuit to circuit. See Study Draft
    of a New Federal Criminal Code, Sec. 503 Comment at 37 (USGPO
    1970). For a more extensive discussion of present law, see Working
    Papers of the National Commission on Reform of Federal Criminal
    Laws, Vol. 1, pp. 229-247 (USGPO 1970). The National Commission
    recommends the adoption of a single test patterned after the
    proposal of the American Law Institute's Model Penal Code. The
    proposed definition provides in part:
          In any prosecution for an offense lack of criminal
        responsibility by reason of mental disease or defect is a
        defense. [Study Draft of a New Federal Criminal Code Sec. 503
        at 36-37.]
      Should the proposal of the National Commission be adopted by the
    Congress, the language of subdivision (a) probably ought to be
    changed to read "defense of lack of criminal responsibility by
    reason of mental disease or defect" rather than "defense of
    insanity."
      Subdivision (b) is intended to deal with the issue of expert
    testimony bearing upon the issue of whether the defendant had the
    "mental state required for the offense charged."
      There is some disagreement as to whether it is proper to
    introduce evidence of mental disease or defect bearing not upon the
    defense of insanity, but rather upon the existence of the mental
    state required by the offense charged. The American Law Institute's
    Model Penal Code takes the position that such evidence is
    admissible [Sec. 4.02(1) (P.O.D. 1962)]. See also People v.
    Gorshen, 51 Cal.2d 716, 336 P.2d 492 (1959).
      The federal cases reach conflicting conclusions. See Rhodes v.
    United States, 282 F.2d 59, 62 (4th Cir. 1960):
          The proper way would have been to ask the witness to describe
        the defendant's mental condition and symptoms, his pathological
        beliefs and motivations, if he was thus afflicted, and to
        explain how these influenced or could have influenced his
        behavior, particularly his mental capacity knowingly to make
        the false statement charged, or knowingly to forge the
        signatures * * *.
    Compare Fisher v. United States, 328 U.S. 463, 66 S.Ct. 1318, 90
    L.Ed. 1382 (1946).
      Subdivision (b) does not attempt to decide when expert testimony
    is admissible on the issue of the requisite mental state. It
    provides only that the defendant must give pretrial notice when he
    intends to introduce such evidence. The purpose is to prevent the
    need for a continuance when such evidence is offered without prior
    notice. The problem of unnecessary delay has arisen in
    jurisdictions which do not require prior notice of an intention to
    use expert testimony on the issue of mental state. Referring to
    this, the California Special Commission on Insanity and Criminal
    Offenders, First Report 30 (1962) said:
          The abuses of the present system are great. Under a plea of
        "not guilty" without any notice to the people that the defense
        of insanity will be relied upon, defendant has been able to
        raise the defense upon the trial of the issue as to whether he
        committed the offense charged.
      As an example of the delay occasioned by the failure to
    heretofore require a pretrial notice by the defendant, see United
    States v. Albright, 388 F.2d 719 (4th Cir. 1968), where a jury
    trial was recessed for 23 days to permit a psychiatric examination
    by the prosecution when the defendant injected a surprise defense
    of lack of mental competency.
      Subdivision (c) gives the court the authority to order the
    defendant to submit to a psychiatric examination by a psychiatrist
    designated by the court. A similar provision is found in ALI, Model
    Penal Code Sec. 4.05(1) (P.O.D. 1962). This is a common provision
    of state law, the constitutionality of which has been sustained.
    Authorities are collected in ALI, Model Penal Code, pp. 195-196
    Tent. Draft No. 4, (1955). For a recent proposal, see the New
    Jersey Penal Code Sec. 2c: 4-5 (Final Report of the New Jersey
    Criminal Law Revision Commission, Oct. 1971) authorizing
    appointment of "at least one qualified psychiatrist to examine and
    report upon the mental condition of the defendant." Any issue of
    self-incrimination which might arise can be dealt with by the court
    as, for example, by a bifurcated trial which deals separately with
    the issues of guilt and of mental responsibility. For statutory
    authority to appoint a psychiatrist with respect to competency to
    stand trial, see 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4244.
      Subdivision (d) confers authority on the court to exclude expert
    testimony in behalf of a defendant who has failed to give notice
    under subdivision (b) or who refuses to be examined by a court-
    appointed psychiatrist under subdivision (c). See State v.
    Whitlow, 45 N.J. 3, 23, 210 A.2d 763 (1965), which indicates that
    it is proper to limit or exclude testimony by a defense
    psychiatrist whenever defendant refuses to be examined.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 12.2 is a new
    rule that deals with defense based upon mental condition. It
    provides that: (1) The defendant must notify the prosecution in
    writing of his intention to rely upon the defense of insanity. If
    the defendant fails to comply, "insanity may not be raised as a
    defense." (2) If the defendant intends to introduce expert
    testimony relating to mental disease or defect on the issue whether
    he had the requisite mental state, he must notify the prosecution
    in writing. (3) The court, on motion of the prosecution, may order
    the defendant to submit to a psychiatric examination by a court-
    appointed psychiatrist. (4) If the defendant fails to undergo the
    court-ordered psychiatric examination, the court may exclude any
    expert witness the defendant offers on the issue of his mental
    state.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee agrees with the proposed rule
    but has added language concerning the use of statements made to a
    psychiatrist during the course of a psychiatric examination
    provided for by Rule 12.2. The language provides:
          No statement made by the accused in the course of any
        examination provided for by this rule, whether the examination
        shall be with or without the consent of the accused, shall be
        admitted in evidence against the accused before the judge who
        or jury which determines the guilt of the accused, prior to the
        determination of guilt.
    The purpose of this rule is to secure the defendant's fifth
    amendment right against self-incrimination. See State v. Raskin, 34
    Wis.2d 607, 150 N.W.2d 318 (1967). The provision is flexible and
    does not totally preclude the use of such statements. For example,
    the defendant's statement can be used at a separate determination
    of the issue of sanity or for sentencing purposes once guilt has
    been determined. A limiting instruction to the jury in a single
    trial to consider statements made to the psychiatrist only on the
    issue of sanity would not satisfy the requirements of the rule as
    amended. The prejudicial effect on the determination of guilt would
    be inescapable.
      The Committee notes that the rule does not attempt to resolve the
    issue whether the court can constitutionally compel a defendant to
    undergo a psychiatric examination when the defendant is unwilling
    to undergo one. The provisions of subdivision (c) are qualified by
    the phrase, "In an appropriate case." If the court cannot
    constitutionally compel an unwilling defendant to undergo a
    psychiatric examination, then the provisions of subdivision (c) are
    inapplicable in every instance where the defendant is unwilling to
    undergo a court-ordered psychiatric examination. The Committee, by
    its approval of subdivision (c), intends to take no stand whatever
    on the constitutional question.

    CONFERENCE COMMITTEE NOTES, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-414; 1975 AMENDMENT
      Rule 12.2(c) deals with court-ordered psychiatric examinations.
    The House version provides that no statement made by a defendant
    during a court-ordered psychiatric examination could be admitted in
    evidence against the defendant before the trier of fact that
    determines the issue of guilt prior to the determination of guilt.
    The Senate version deletes this provision.
      The Conference adopts a modified House provision and restores to
    the bill the language of H.R. 6799 as it was originally introduced.
    The Conference adopted language provides that no statement made by
    the defendant during a psychiatric examination provided for by the
    rule shall be admitted against him on the issue of guilt in any
    criminal proceeding.
      The Conference believes that the provision in H.R. 6799 as
    originally introduced in the House adequately protects the
    defendant's fifth amendment right against self-incrimination. The
    rule does not preclude use of statements made by a defendant during
    a court-ordered psychiatric examination. The statements may be
    relevant to the issue of defendant's sanity and admissible on that
    issue. However, a limiting instruction would not satisfy the rule
    if a statement is so prejudicial that a limiting instruction would
    be ineffective. Cf. practice under 18 U.S.C. 4244.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (b). Courts have recently experienced
    difficulty with the question of what kind of expert testimony
    offered for what purpose falls within the notice requirement of
    rule 12.2(b). See, e.g., United States v. Hill, 655 F.2d 512 (3d
    Cir. 1980) (rule not applicable to tendered testimony of
    psychologist concerning defendant's susceptibility of inducement,
    offered to reinforce defendant's entrapment defense); United States
    v. Webb, 625 F.2d 709 (5th Cir. 1980) (rule not applicable to
    expert testimony tendered to show that defendant lacked the
    "propensity to commit a violent act," as this testimony was offered
    "to prove that Webb did not commit the offense charged," shooting
    at a helicopter, "not that certain conduct was unaccompanied by
    criminal intent"); United States v. Perl, 584 F.2d 1316 (4th Cir.
    1978) (because entrapment defense properly withheld from jury, it
    was unnecessary to decide if the district court erred in holding
    rule applicable to tendered testimony of the doctor that defendant
    had increased susceptibility to suggestion as a result of
    medication he was taking); United States v. Olson, 576 F.2d 1267
    (8th Cir. 1978) (rule applicable to tendered testimony of an
    alcoholism and drug therapist that defendant was not responsible
    for his actions because of a problem with alcohol); United States
    v. Staggs, 553 F.2d 1073 (7th Cir. 1977) (rule applicable to
    tendered testimony of psychologist that defendant, charged with
    assaulting federal officer, was more likely to hurt himself than to
    direct his aggressions toward others, as this testimony bears upon
    whether defendant intended to put victim in apprehension when he
    picked up the gun).
      What these cases illustrate is that expert testimony about
    defendant's mental condition may be tendered in a wide variety of
    circumstances well beyond the situation clearly within rule
    12.2(b), i.e., where a psychiatrist testifies for the defendant
    regarding his diminished capacity. In all of these situations and
    others like them, there is good reason to make applicable the
    notice provisions of rule 12.2(b). This is because in all
    circumstances in which the defendant plans to offer expert
    testimony concerning his mental condition at the time of the crime
    charged, advance disclosure to the government will serve "to permit
    adequate pretrial preparation, to prevent surprise at trial, and to
    avoid the necessity of delays during trial." 2 A.B.A. Standards for
    Criminal Justice 11-55 (2d 1980). Thus, while the district court in
    United States v. Hill, 481 F.Supp. 558 (E.D.Pa. 1979), incorrectly
    concluded that present rule 12.2(b) covers testimony by a
    psychologist bearing on the defense of entrapment, the court quite
    properly concluded that the government would be seriously
    disadvantaged by lack of notice. This would have meant that the
    government would not have been equipped to cross-examine the
    expert, that any expert called by the government would not have had
    an opportunity to hear the defense expert testify, and that the
    government would not have had an opportunity to conduct the kind of
    investigation needed to acquire rebuttal testimony on defendant's
    claim that he was especially susceptible to inducement.
    Consequently, rule 12.2(b) has been expanded to cover all of the
    aforementioned situations.
      Note to Subdivision (c). The amendment of the first sentence of
    subdivision (c), recognizing that the government may seek to have
    defendant subjected to a mental examination by an expert other than
    a psychiatrist, is prompted by the same considerations discussed
    above. Because it is possible that the defendant will submit to
    examination by an expert of his own other than a psychiatrist, it
    is necessary to recognize that it will sometimes be appropriate for
    defendant to be examined by a government expert other than a
    psychiatrist.
      The last sentence of subdivision (c) has been amended to more
    accurately reflect the Fifth Amendment considerations at play in
    this context. See Estelle v. Smith, 451 U.S. 454 (1981), holding
    that self-incrimination protections are not inevitably limited to
    the guilt phase of a trial and that the privilege, when applicable,
    protects against use of defendant's statement and also the fruits
    thereof, including expert testimony based upon defendant's
    statements to the expert. Estelle also intimates that "a defendant
    can be required to submit to a sanity examination," and presumably
    some other form of mental examination, when "his silence may
    deprive the State of the only effective means it has of
    controverting his proof on an issue that he interjected into the
    case."
      Note to Subdivision (d). The broader term "mental condition" is
    appropriate here in light of the above changes to subdivisions (b)
    and (c).
      Note to Subdivision (e). New subdivision (e), generally
    consistent with the protection afforded in rule 12.1(f) with
    respect to notice of alibi, ensures that the notice required under
    subdivision (b) will not deprive the defendant of an opportunity
    later to elect not to utilize any expert testimony. This provision
    is consistent with Williams v. Florida, 399 U.S. 78 (1970), holding
    the privilege against self-incrimination is not violated by
    requiring the defendant to give notice of a defense where the
    defendant retains the "unfettered choice" of abandoning the
    defense.

        DISSENTING STATEMENT OF JUSTICE O'CONNOR TO 1983 AMENDMENT    
      With one minor reservation, I join the Court in its adoption of
    the proposed amendments. They represent the product of considerable
    effort by the Advisory Committee, and they will institute desirable
    reforms. My sole disagreement with the Court's action today lies in
    its failure to recommend correction of an apparent error in the
    drafting of Proposed Rule 12.2(e).
      As proposed, Rule 12.2(e) reads:
      "Evidence of an intention as to which notice was given under
      subdivision (a) or (b), later withdrawn, is not admissible in any
      civil or criminal proceeding against the person who gave notice
      of the intention."
    Identical language formerly appeared in Fed. Rules Crim. Proc.
    11(e)(6) and Fed. Rules Evid. 410, each of which stated that
      "[Certain material] is not admissible in any civil or criminal
      proceeding against the defendant."
    Those rules were amended, Supreme Court Order April 30, 1979, 441
    U.S. 970, 987, 1007, Pub. Law 96-42, approved July 31, 1979, 93
    Stat. 326. After the amendments, the relevant language read,
      "[Certain material] is not, in any civil or criminal proceeding,
      admissible against the defendant."
    As the Advisory Committee explained, this minor change was
    necessary to eliminate an ambiguity. Before the amendment, the word
    "against" could be read as referring either to the kind of
    proceeding in which the evidence was offered or to the purpose for
    which it was offered. Thus, for instance, if a person was a witness
    in a suit but not a party, it was unclear whether the evidence
    could be used to impeach him. In such a case, the use would be
    against the person, but the proceeding would not be against him.
    Similarly, if the person wished to introduce the evidence in a
    proceeding in which he was the defendant, the use, but not the
    proceeding, would be against him. To eliminate the ambiguity, the
    Advisory Committee proposed the amendment clarifying that the
    evidence was inadmissible against the person, regardless of whether
    the particular proceeding was against the person. See Adv. Comm.
    Note to Fed. Rules Crim. Proc. 11(e)(6); Adv. Comm. Note to Fed.
    Rules Evid. 410.
      The same ambiguity inheres in the proposed version of Rule
    12.2(e). We should recommend that it be eliminated now. To that
    extent, I respectfully dissent.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (e). This clarifying amendment is intended to
    serve the same purpose as a comparable change made in 1979 to
    similar language in Rule 11(e)(6). The change makes it clear that
    evidence of a withdrawn intent is thereafter inadmissible against
    the person who gave the notice in any civil or criminal proceeding,
    without regard to whether the proceeding is against that person.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 12.2 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The substantive changes to Rule 12.2 are designed to address five
    issues. First, the amendment clarifies that a court may order a
    mental examination for a defendant who has indicated an intention
    to raise a defense of mental condition bearing on the issue of
    guilt. Second, the defendant is required to give notice of an
    intent to present expert evidence of the defendant's mental
    condition during a capital sentencing proceeding. Third, the
    amendment addresses the ability of the trial court to order a
    mental examination for a defendant who has given notice of an
    intent to present evidence of mental condition during capital
    sentencing proceedings and when the results of that examination may
    be disclosed. Fourth, the amendment addresses the timing of
    disclosure of the results and reports of the defendant's expert
    examination. Finally, the amendment extends the sanctions for
    failure to comply with the rule's requirements to the punishment
    phase of a capital case.
      Under current Rule 12.2(b), a defendant who intends to offer
    expert testimony on the issue of his or her mental condition on the
    question of guilt must provide a pretrial notice of that intent.
    The amendment extends that notice requirement to a defendant who
    intends to offer expert evidence, testimonial or otherwise, on his
    or her mental condition during a capital sentencing proceeding. As
    several courts have recognized, the better practice is to require
    pretrial notice of that intent so that any mental examinations can
    be conducted without unnecessarily delaying capital sentencing
    proceedings. See, e.g., United States v. Beckford, 962 F. Supp.
    748, 754-64 (E.D. Va. 1997); United States v. Haworth, 942 F. Supp.
    1406, 1409 (D.N.M. 1996). The amendment adopts that view.
      Revised Rule 12.2(c)(1) addresses and clarifies the authority of
    the court to order mental examinations for a defendant - to
    determine competency of a defendant to stand trial under 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 4241; to determine the defendant's sanity at the time of the
    alleged offense under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4242; or in those cases where
    the defendant intends to present expert testimony on his or her
    mental condition. Rule 12.2(c)(1)(A) reflects the traditional
    authority of the court to order competency examinations. With
    regard to examinations to determine insanity at the time of the
    offense, current Rule 12.2(c) implies that the trial court may
    grant a government motion for a mental examination of a defendant
    who has indicated under Rule 12.2(a) an intent to raise the defense
    of insanity. But the corresponding statute, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4242,
    requires the court to order an examination if the defendant has
    provided notice of an intent to raise that defense and the
    government moves for the examination. Revised Rule 12.2(c)(1)(B)
    now conforms the rule to Sec. 4242. Any examination conducted on
    the issue of the insanity defense would thus be conducted in
    accordance with the procedures set out in that statutory provision.
      Revised Rule 12.2(c)(1)(B) also addresses those cases where the
    defendant is not relying on an insanity defense, but intends to
    offer expert testimony on the issue of mental condition. While the
    authority of a trial court to order a mental examination of a
    defendant who has registered an intent to raise the insanity
    defense seems clear, the authority under the rule to order an
    examination of a defendant who intends only to present expert
    testimony on his or her mental condition on the issue of guilt is
    not as clear. Some courts have concluded that a court may order
    such an examination. See, e.g., United States v. Stackpole, 811
    F.2d 689, 697 (1st Cir. 1987); United States v. Buchbinder, 796
    F.2d 910, 915 (1st Cir. 1986); and United States v. Halbert, 712
    F.2d 388 (9th Cir. 1983). In United States v. Davis, 93 F.3d 1286
    (6th Cir. 1996), however, the court in a detailed analysis of the
    issue concluded that the district court lacked the authority under
    the rule to order a mental examination of a defendant who had
    provided notice of an intent to offer evidence on a defense of
    diminished capacity. The court noted first that the defendant could
    not be ordered to undergo commitment and examination under 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 4242, because that provision relates to situations when
    the defendant intends to rely on the defense of insanity. The court
    also rejected the argument that the examination could be ordered
    under Rule 12.2(c) because this was, in the words of the rule, an
    "appropriate case." The court concluded, however, that the trial
    court had the inherent authority to order such an examination.
      The amendment clarifies that the authority of a court to order a
    mental examination under Rule 12.2(c)(1)(B) extends to those cases
    when the defendant has provided notice, under Rule 12.2(b), of an
    intent to present expert testimony on the defendant's mental
    condition, either on the merits or at capital sentencing. See,
    e.g., United States v. Hall, 152 F.3d 381 (5th Cir. 1998), cert.
    denied, 119 S. Ct. 1767 (1999).
      The amendment to Rule 12.2(c)(1) is not intended to affect any
    statutory or inherent authority a court may have to order other
    mental examinations.
      The amendment leaves to the court the determination of what
    procedures should be used for a court-ordered examination on the
    defendant's mental condition (apart from insanity). As currently
    provided in the rule, if the examination is being ordered in
    connection with the defendant's stated intent to present an
    insanity defense, the procedures are dictated by 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    4242. On the other hand, if the examination is being ordered in
    conjunction with a stated intent to present expert testimony on the
    defendant's mental condition (not amounting to a defense of
    insanity) either at the guilt or sentencing phases, no specific
    statutory counterpart is available. Accordingly, the court is given
    the discretion to specify the procedures to be used. In so doing,
    the court may certainly be informed by other provisions, which
    address hearings on a defendant's mental condition. See, e.g., 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 4241, et seq.
      Additional changes address the question when the results of an
    examination ordered under Rule 12.2(b)(2) may, or must, be
    disclosed. The Supreme Court has recognized that use of a
    defendant's statements during a court-ordered examination may
    compromise the defendant's right against self-incrimination. See
    Estelle v. Smith, 451 U.S. 454 (1981) (defendant's privilege
    against self-incrimination violated when he was not advised of
    right to remain silent during court-ordered examination and
    prosecution introduced statements during capital sentencing
    hearing). But subsequent cases have indicated that the defendant
    waives the privilege if the defendant introduces expert testimony
    on his or her mental condition. See, e.g., Powell v. Texas, 492
    U.S. 680, 683-84 (1989); Buchanan v. Kentucky, 483 U.S. 402, 421-24
    (1987); Presnell v. Zant, 959 F.2d 1524, 1533 (11th Cir. 1992);
    Williams v. Lynaugh, 809 F.2d 1063, 1068 (5th Cir. 1987); United
    States v. Madrid, 673 F.2d 1114, 1119-21 (10th Cir. 1982). That
    view is reflected in Rule 12.2(c), which indicates that the
    statements of the defendant may be used against the defendant only
    after the defendant has introduced testimony on his or her mental
    condition. What the current rule does not address is if, and to
    what extent, the prosecution may see the results of the
    examination, which may include the defendant's statements, when
    evidence of the defendant's mental condition is being presented
    solely at a capital sentencing proceeding.
      The proposed change in Rule 12.2(c)(2) adopts the procedure used
    by some courts to seal or otherwise insulate the results of the
    examination until it is clear that the defendant will introduce
    expert evidence about his or her mental condition at a capital
    sentencing hearing; i.e., after a verdict of guilty on one or more
    capital crimes, and a reaffirmation by the defendant of an intent
    to introduce expert mental-condition evidence in the sentencing
    phase. See, e.g., United States v. Beckford, 962 F. Supp. 748 (E.D.
    Va. 1997). Most courts that have addressed the issue have
    recognized that if the government obtains early access to the
    accused's statements, it will be required to show that it has not
    made any derivative use of that evidence. Doing so can consume time
    and resources. See, e.g., United States v. Hall, supra, 152 F.3d at
    398 (noting that sealing of record, although not constitutionally
    required, "likely advances interests of judicial economy by
    avoiding litigation over [derivative use issue]").
      Except as provided in Rule 12.2(c)(3), the rule does not address
    the time for disclosing results and reports of any expert
    examination conducted by the defendant. New Rule 12.2(c)(3)
    provides that upon disclosure under subdivision (c)(2) of the
    results and reports of the government's examination, disclosure of
    the results and reports of the defendant's expert examination is
    mandatory, if the defendant intends to introduce expert evidence
    relating to the examination.
      Rule 12.2(c), as previously written, restricted admissibility of
    the defendant's statements during the course of an examination
    conducted under the rule to an issue respecting mental condition on
    which the defendant "has introduced testimony" - expert or
    otherwise. As amended, Rule 12.2(c)(4) provides that the
    admissibility of such evidence in a capital sentencing proceeding
    is triggered only by the defendant's introduction of expert
    evidence. The Committee believed that, in this context, it was
    appropriate to limit the government's ability to use the results of
    its expert mental examination to instances in which the defendant
    has first introduced expert evidence on the issue.
      Rule 12.2(d) has been amended to extend sanctions for failure to
    comply with the rule to the penalty phase of a capital case. The
    selection of an appropriate remedy for the failure of a defendant
    to provide notice or submit to an examination under subdivisions
    (b) and (c) is entrusted to the discretion of the court. While
    subdivision (d) recognizes that the court may exclude the evidence
    of the defendant's own expert in such a situation, the court should
    also consider "the effectiveness of less severe sanctions, the
    impact of preclusion on the evidence at trial and the outcome of
    the case, the extent of prosecutorial surprise or prejudice, and
    whether the violation was willful." Taylor v. Illinois, 484 U.S.
    400, 414 n.19 (1988) (citing Fendler v. Goldsmith, 728 F.2d 1181
    (9th Cir. 1983)).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      The amendment to Rule 12.2(d) fills a gap created in the 2002
    amendments to the rule. The substantively amended rule that took
    effect December 1, 2002, permits a sanction of exclusion of "any
    expert evidence" for failure to give notice or failure to submit to
    an examination, but provides no sanction for failure to disclose
    reports. The proposed amendment is designed to address that
    specific issue.
      Rule 12.2(d)(1) is a slightly restructured version of current
    Rule 12.2(d). Rule 12.2(d)(2) is new and permits the court to
    exclude any expert evidence for failure to comply with the
    disclosure requirement in Rule 12.2(c)(3). The sanction is intended
    to relate only to the evidence related to the matters addressed in
    the report, which the defense failed to disclose. Unlike the
    broader sanction for the two violations listed in Rule 12.2(d)(1) -
    which can substantially affect the entire hearing - the Committee
    believed that it would be overbroad to expressly authorize
    exclusion of "any" expert evidence, even evidence unrelated to the
    results and reports that were not disclosed, as required in Rule
    12.2(c)(3).
      The rule assumes that the sanction of exclusion will result only
    where there has been a complete failure to disclose the report. If
    the report is disclosed, albeit in an untimely fashion, other
    relief may be appropriate, for example, granting a continuance to
    the government to review the report.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    additional changes to Rule 12.2, following publication.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1986 - Subd. (c). Pub. L. 99-646 inserted "4241 or" before
    "4242".
      1984 - Subd. (a). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 404(a), substituted
    "offense" for "crime".
      Subd. (b). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 404(b), which directed the
    amendment of subd. (b) by deleting "other condition bearing upon
    the issue of whether he had the mental state required for the
    offense charged" and inserting in lieu thereof "any other mental
    condition bearing upon the issue of guilt", was repealed by section
    11(b) of Pub. L. 98-596.
      Subd. (c). Pub. L. 98-596, Sec. 11(a)(1), substituted "to an
    examination pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 4242" for "to a mental
    examination by a psychiatrist or other expert designated for this
    purpose in the order of the court".
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 404(c), which directed the amendment of
    subd. (c) by deleting "to a psychiatric examination by a
    psychiatrist designated for this purpose in the order of the court"
    and inserting in lieu thereof "to an examination pursuant to 18
    U.S.C. 4242" could not be executed because the phrase to be deleted
    did not appear. See amendment note for section 11(a)(1) of Pub. L.
    98-596 above.
      Subd. (d). Pub. L. 98-596, Sec. 11(a)(2), substituted "guilt" for
    "mental condition".
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 404(d), which directed the amendment of
    subd. (d) by deleting "mental state" and inserting in lieu thereof
    "guilt", was repealed by section 11(b) of Pub. L. 98-596.
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subd. (c) generally.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 11(c) of Pub. L. 98-596 provided that: "The amendments
    and repeals made by subsections (a) and (b) of this section
    [amending this rule] shall apply on and after the enactment of the
    joint resolution entitled 'Joint resolution making continuing
    appropriations for the fiscal year 1985, and for other purposes',
    H.J. Res. 648, Ninety-eighth Congress [Pub. L. 98-473, Oct. 12,
    1984]."

         EFFECTIVE DATE OF RULE; EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS     
      This rule, and the amendments of this rule made by section 3 of
    Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975, see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-
    64, set out as a note under rule 4 of these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 12.3                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 12.3. Notice of a Public-Authority Defense

-STATUTE-
      (a) Notice of the Defense and Disclosure of Witnesses.
        (1) Notice in General. If a defendant intends to assert a
      defense of actual or believed exercise of public authority on
      behalf of a law enforcement agency or federal intelligence agency
      at the time of the alleged offense, the defendant must so notify
      an attorney for the government in writing and must file a copy of
      the notice with the clerk within the time provided for filing a
      pretrial motion, or at any later time the court sets. The notice
      filed with the clerk must be under seal if the notice identifies
      a federal intelligence agency as the source of public authority.
        (2) Contents of Notice. The notice must contain the following
      information:
          (A) the law enforcement agency or federal intelligence agency
        involved;
          (B) the agency member on whose behalf the defendant claims to
        have acted; and
          (C) the time during which the defendant claims to have acted
        with public authority.

        (3) Response to the Notice. An attorney for the government must
      serve a written response on the defendant or the defendant's
      attorney within 14 days after receiving the defendant's notice,
      but no later than 21 days before trial. The response must admit
      or deny that the defendant exercised the public authority
      identified in the defendant's notice.
        (4) Disclosing Witnesses.
          (A) Government's Request. An attorney for the government may
        request in writing that the defendant disclose the name,
        address, and telephone number of each witness the defendant
        intends to rely on to establish a public-authority defense. An
        attorney for the government may serve the request when the
        government serves its response to the defendant's notice under
        Rule 12.3(a)(3), or later, but must serve the request no later
        than 21 days before trial.
          (B) Defendant's Response. Within 14 days after receiving the
        government's request, the defendant must serve on an attorney
        for the government a written statement of the name, address,
        and telephone number of each witness.
          (C) Government's Reply. Within 14 days after receiving the
        defendant's statement, an attorney for the government must
        serve on the defendant or the defendant's attorney a written
        statement of the name of each witness - and the address and
        telephone number of each witness other than a victim - that the
        government intends to rely on to oppose the defendant's public-
        authority defense.
          (D) Victim's Address and Telephone Number. If the government
        intends to rely on a victim's testimony to oppose the
        defendant's public-authority defense and the defendant
        establishes a need for the victim's address and telephone
        number, the court may:
            (i) order the government to provide the information in
          writing to the defendant or the defendant's attorney; or
            (ii) fashion a reasonable procedure that allows for
          preparing the defense and also protects the victim's
          interests.

        (5) Additional Time. The court may, for good cause, allow a
      party additional time to comply with this rule.

      (b) Continuing Duty to Disclose.
        (1) In General. Both an attorney for the government and the
      defendant must promptly disclose in writing to the other party
      the name of any additional witness - and the address, and
      telephone number of any additional witness other than a victim -
      if:
          (A) the disclosing party learns of the witness before or
        during trial; and
          (B) the witness should have been disclosed under Rule
        12.3(a)(4) if the disclosing party had known of the witness
        earlier.

        (2) Address and Telephone Number of an Additional Victim-
      Witness. The address and telephone number of an additional
      victim-witness must not be disclosed except as provided in Rule
      12.3(a)(4)(D).

      (c) Failure to Comply. If a party fails to comply with this rule,
    the court may exclude the testimony of any undisclosed witness
    regarding the public-authority defense. This rule does not limit
    the defendant's right to testify.
      (d) Protective Procedures Unaffected. This rule does not limit
    the court's authority to issue appropriate protective orders or to
    order that any filings be under seal.
      (e) Inadmissibility of Withdrawn Intention. Evidence of an
    intention as to which notice was given under Rule 12.3(a), later
    withdrawn, is not, in any civil or criminal proceeding, admissible
    against the person who gave notice of the intention.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Pub. L. 100-690, title VI, Sec. 6483, Nov. 18, 1988, 102
    Stat. 4382; amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Mar. 26,
    2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009; Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010.)


-MISC1-
                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 12.3 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Substantive changes have been made in Rule 12.3(a)(4) and
    12.3(b). As in Rule 12.1, the Committee decided to include in the
    restyled rule the requirement that the parties provide the
    telephone numbers of any witnesses disclosed under the rule.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The times set in the former rule at 7, 10, or 20 days have been
    revised to 14 or 21 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2010 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivisions (a) and (b). The amendment implements the Crime
    Victims' Rights Act, which states that victims have the right to be
    reasonably protected from the accused, and to be treated with
    respect for the victim's dignity and privacy. See 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(1) & (8). The rule provides that a victim's address and
    telephone number should not automatically be provided to the
    defense when a public-authority defense is raised. If a defendant
    establishes a need for this information, the court has discretion
    to order its disclosure or to fashion an alternative procedure that
    provides the defendant with the information necessary to prepare a
    defense, but also protects the victim's interests.
      In the case of victims who will testify concerning a public-
    authority claim, the same procedures and standards apply to both
    the prosecutor's initial disclosure and the prosecutor's continuing
    duty to disclose under subdivision (b).
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made after the amendment was released for public
    comment.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 12.4                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 12.4. Disclosure Statement

-STATUTE-
      (a) Who Must File.
        (1) Nongovernmental Corporate Party. Any nongovernmental
      corporate party to a proceeding in a district court must file a
      statement that identifies any parent corporation and any publicly
      held corporation that owns 10% or more of its stock or states
      that there is no such corporation.
        (2) Organizational Victim. If an organization is a victim of
      the alleged criminal activity, the government must file a
      statement identifying the victim. If the organizational victim is
      a corporation, the statement must also disclose the information
      required by Rule 12.4(a)(1) to the extent it can be obtained
      through due diligence.

      (b) Time for Filing; Supplemental Filing. A party must:
        (1) file the Rule 12.4(a) statement upon the defendant's
      initial appearance; and
        (2) promptly file a supplemental statement upon any change in
      the information that the statement requires.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002                  
      Rule 12.4 is a new rule modeled after Federal Rule of Appellate
    Procedure 26.1 and parallels similar provisions being proposed in
    new Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 7.1. The purpose of the rule is
    to assist judges in determining whether they must recuse themselves
    because of a "financial interest in the subject matter in
    controversy." Code of Judicial Conduct, Canon 3C(1)(c)(1972). It
    does not, however, deal with other circumstances that might lead to
    disqualification for other reasons.
      Under Rule 12.4(a)(1), any nongovernmental corporate party must
    file a statement that indicates whether it has any parent
    corporation that owns 10% or more of its stock or indicates that
    there is no such corporation. Although the term "nongovernmental
    corporate party" will almost always involve organizational
    defendants, it might also cover any third party that asserts an
    interest in property to be forfeited under new Rule 32.2.
      Rule 12.4(a)(2) requires an attorney for the government to file a
    statement that lists any organizational victims of the alleged
    criminal activity; the purpose of this disclosure is to alert the
    court to the fact that a possible ground for disqualification might
    exist. Further, if the organizational victim is a corporation, the
    statement must include the same information required of any
    nongovernmental corporate party. The rule requires an attorney for
    the government to use due diligence in obtaining that information
    from a corporate organizational victim, recognizing that the timing
    requirements of Rule 12.4(b) might make it difficult to obtain the
    necessary information by the time the initial appearance is
    conducted.
      Although the disclosures required by Rule 12.4 may seem limited,
    they are calculated to reach the majority of circumstances that are
    likely to call for disqualification on the basis of information
    that a judge may not know or recollect. Framing a rule that calls
    for more detailed disclosure is problematic and will inevitably
    require more information than is necessary for purposes of
    automatic recusal. Unnecessary disclosure of volumes of information
    may create the risk that a judge will overlook the one bit of
    information that might require disqualification, and may also
    create the risk that courts will experience unnecessary
    disqualifications rather than attempt to unravel a potentially
    difficult question.
      The same concerns about overbreadth are potentially present in
    any local rules that might address this topic. Rule 12.4 does not
    address the promulgation of any local rules that might address the
    same issue, or supplement the requirements of the rule.
      The rule does not cover disclosure of all financial information
    that could be relevant to a judge's decision whether to recuse
    himself or herself from a case. The Committee believes that with
    the various disclosure practices in the federal courts and with the
    development of technology, more comprehensive disclosure may be
    desirable and feasible.
      Rule 12.4(b)(1) indicates that the time for filing the disclosure
    statement is at the point when the defendant enters an initial
    appearance under Rule 5. Although there may be other instances
    where an earlier appearance of a party in a civil proceeding would
    raise concerns about whether the presiding judicial officer should
    be notified of a possible grounds for recusal, the Committee
    believed that in criminal cases, the most likely time for that to
    occur is at the initial appearance and that it was important to set
    a uniform triggering event for disclosures under this rule.
      Finally, Rule 12.4(b)(2) requires the parties to file
    supplemental statements with the court if there are any changes in
    the information required in the statement.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 13                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 13. Joint Trial of Separate Cases

-STATUTE-
      The court may order that separate cases be tried together as
    though brought in a single indictment or information if all
    offenses and all defendants could have been joined in a single
    indictment or information.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is substantially a restatement of existing law, 18
    U.S.C. [former] 557 (Indictments and presentments; joinder of
    charges); Logan v. United States, 144 U.S. 263, 296; Showalter v.
    United States, 260 F. 719 (C.C.A. 4th) - cert. den., 250 U.S. 672;
    Hostetter v. United States, 16 F.2d 921 (C.C.A. 8th); Capone v.
    United States, 51 F.2d 609, 619-620 (C.C.A. 7th).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 13 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 14                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 14. Relief from Prejudicial Joinder

-STATUTE-
      (a) Relief. If the joinder of offenses or defendants in an
    indictment, an information, or a consolidation for trial appears to
    prejudice a defendant or the government, the court may order
    separate trials of counts, sever the defendants' trials, or provide
    any other relief that justice requires.
      (b) Defendant's Statements. Before ruling on a defendant's motion
    to sever, the court may order an attorney for the government to
    deliver to the court for in camera inspection any defendant's
    statement that the government intends to use as evidence.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is a restatement of existing law under which severance
    and other similar relief is entirely in the discretion of the
    court, 18 U.S.C. [former] 557 (Indictments and presentments;
    joinder of charges); Pointer v. United States, 151 U.S. 396; Pierce
    v. United States, 160 U.S. 355; United States v. Ball, 163 U.S.
    662, 673; Stilson v. United States, 250 U.S. 583.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      A defendant may be prejudiced by the admission in evidence
    against a co-defendant of a statement or confession made by that co-
    defendant. This prejudice cannot be dispelled by cross-examination
    if the co-defendant does not take the stand. Limiting instructions
    to the jury may not in fact erase the prejudice. While the question
    whether to grant a severance is generally left within the
    discretion of the trial court, recent Fifth Circuit cases have
    found sufficient prejudice involved to make denial of a motion for
    severance reversible error. See Schaffer v. United States, 221 F.2d
    17 (5th Cir. 1955); Barton v. United States, 263 F.2d 894 (5th Cir.
    1959). It has even been suggested that when the confession of the
    co-defendant comes as a surprise at the trial, it may be error to
    deny a motion or a mistrial. See Belvin v. United States, 273 F.2d
    583 (5th Cir. 1960).
      The purpose of the amendment is to provide a procedure whereby
    the issue of possible prejudice can be resolved on the motion for
    severance. The judge may direct the disclosure of the confessions
    or statements of the defendants to him for in camera inspection as
    an aid to determining whether the possible prejudice justifies
    ordering separate trials. Cf. note, Joint and Single Trials Under
    Rules 8 and 14 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 74 Yale
    L.J. 551, 565 (1965).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 14 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The reference to a defendant's "confession" in the last sentence
    of the current rule has been deleted. The Committee believed that
    the reference to the "defendant's statements" in the amended rule
    would fairly embrace any confessions or admissions by a defendant.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 15                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 15. Depositions

-STATUTE-
      (a) When Taken.
        (1) In General. A party may move that a prospective witness be
      deposed in order to preserve testimony for trial. The court may
      grant the motion because of exceptional circumstances and in the
      interest of justice. If the court orders the deposition to be
      taken, it may also require the deponent to produce at the
      deposition any designated material that is not privileged,
      including any book, paper, document, record, recording, or data.
        (2) Detained Material Witness. A witness who is detained under
      18 U.S.C. Sec. 3144 may request to be deposed by filing a written
      motion and giving notice to the parties. The court may then order
      that the deposition be taken and may discharge the witness after
      the witness has signed under oath the deposition transcript.

      (b) Notice.
        (1) In General. A party seeking to take a deposition must give
      every other party reasonable written notice of the deposition's
      date and location. The notice must state the name and address of
      each deponent. If requested by a party receiving the notice, the
      court may, for good cause, change the deposition's date or
      location.
        (2) To the Custodial Officer. A party seeking to take the
      deposition must also notify the officer who has custody of the
      defendant of the scheduled date and location.

      (c) Defendant's Presence.
        (1) Defendant in Custody. The officer who has custody of the
      defendant must produce the defendant at the deposition and keep
      the defendant in the witness's presence during the examination,
      unless the defendant:
          (A) waives in writing the right to be present; or
          (B) persists in disruptive conduct justifying exclusion after
        being warned by the court that disruptive conduct will result
        in the defendant's exclusion.

        (2) Defendant Not in Custody. A defendant who is not in custody
      has the right upon request to be present at the deposition,
      subject to any conditions imposed by the court. If the government
      tenders the defendant's expenses as provided in Rule 15(d) but
      the defendant still fails to appear, the defendant - absent good
      cause - waives both the right to appear and any objection to the
      taking and use of the deposition based on that right.

      (d) Expenses. If the deposition was requested by the government,
    the court may - or if the defendant is unable to bear the
    deposition expenses, the court must - order the government to pay:
        (1) any reasonable travel and subsistence expenses of the
      defendant and the defendant's attorney to attend the deposition;
      and
        (2) the costs of the deposition transcript.

      (e) Manner of Taking. Unless these rules or a court order
    provides otherwise, a deposition must be taken and filed in the
    same manner as a deposition in a civil action, except that:
        (1) A defendant may not be deposed without that defendant's
      consent.
        (2) The scope and manner of the deposition examination and
      cross-examination must be the same as would be allowed during
      trial.
        (3) The government must provide to the defendant or the
      defendant's attorney, for use at the deposition, any statement of
      the deponent in the government's possession to which the
      defendant would be entitled at trial.

      (f) Use as Evidence. A party may use all or part of a deposition
    as provided by the Federal Rules of Evidence.
      (g) Objections. A party objecting to deposition testimony or
    evidence must state the grounds for the objection during the
    deposition.
      (h) Depositions by Agreement Permitted. The parties may by
    agreement take and use a deposition with the court's consent.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec.
    3(15)-(19), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 373, 374; Pub. L. 98-473, title
    II, Sec. 209(b), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 1986; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. This rule continues the existing law
    permitting defendants to take depositions in certain limited
    classes of cases under dedimus potestatem and in perpetuam rei
    memoriam, 28 U.S.C. [former] 644. This statute has been generally
    held applicable to criminal cases, Clymer v. United States, 38 F.2d
    581 (C.C.A. 10th); Wong Yim v. United States, 118 F.2d 667 (C.C.A.
    9th) - cert. den., 313 U.S. 589; United States v. Cameron, 15 F.
    794 (C.C.E.D.Mo.); United States v. Hofmann, 24 F.Supp. 847
    (S.D.N.Y.). Contra, Luxemberg v. United States, 45 F.2d 497 (C.C.A.
    4th) - cert. den., 283 U.S. 820. The rule continues the limitation
    of the statute that the taking of depositions is to be restricted
    to cases in which they are necessary "in order to prevent a failure
    of justice."
      2. Unlike the practice in civil cases in which depositions may be
    taken as a matter of right by notice without permission of the
    court (Rules 26(a) and 30, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28
    U.S.C., Appendix]), this rule permits depositions to be taken only
    by order of the court, made in the exercise of discretion and on
    notice to all parties. It was contemplated that in criminal cases
    depositions would be used only in exceptional situations, as has
    been the practice heretofore.
      3. This rule introduces a new feature in authorizing the taking
    of the deposition of a witness committed for failure to give bail
    (see Rule 46(b)). This matter is, however, left to the discretion
    of the court. The purpose of the rule is to afford a method of
    relief for such a witness, if the court finds it proper to extend
    it.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This subdivision, as well as
    subdivisions (d) and (f), sets forth the procedure to be followed
    in the event that the court grants an order for the taking of a
    deposition. The procedure prescribed is similar to that in civil
    cases, Rules 28-31, Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule introduces a new feature for
    the purpose of protecting the rights of an indigent defendant.
      Note to Subdivision (d). See Note to Subdivision (b), supra.
      Note to Subdivision (e). In providing when and for what purpose a
    deposition may be used at the trial, this rule generally follows
    the corresponding provisions of the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure, Rule 26(d)(3) [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. The only difference
    is that in civil cases a deposition may be introduced at the trial
    if the witness is at a greater distance than 100 miles from the
    place of trial, while this rule requires that the witness be out of
    the United States. The distinction results from the fact that a
    subpoena in a civil case runs only within the district where issued
    or 100 miles from the place of trial (Rule 45(e)(1), Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure), while a subpoena in a criminal case runs
    throughout the United States (see Rule 17(e)(1), infra).
      Note to Subdivision (f). See Note to Subdivision (b), supra.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 15 authorizes the taking of depositions by the government.
    Under former rule 15 only a defendant was authorized to take a
    deposition.
      The revision is similar to Title VI of the Organized Crime
    Control Act of 1970. The principal difference is that Title VI (18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3503) limits the authority of the government to take
    depositions to cases in which the Attorney General certifies that
    the "proceeding is against a person who is believed to have
    participated in an organized criminal activity." This limitation is
    not contained in rule 15.
      Dealing with the issue of government depositions so soon after
    the enactment of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3503 is not inconsistent with the
    congressional purpose. On the floor of the House, Congressman Poff,
    a principal spokesman for the proposal, said that the House version
    was not designed to "limit the Judicial Conference of the United
    States in the exercise of its rulemaking authority . . . from
    addressing itself to other problems in this area or from adopting a
    broader approach." 116 Cong.Rec. 35293 (1970).
      The recently enacted Title VI of the Organized Crime Control Act
    of 1970 (18 U.S.C. Sec. 3503) is based upon earlier efforts of the
    Advisory Committee on Criminal Rules which has over the past twenty-
    five years submitted several proposals authorizing government
    depositions.
      The earlier drafts of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure
    proposed that the government be allowed to take depositions.
    Orfield, The Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 33 Calif.L.Rev.
    543, 559 (1945). The Fifth Draft of what became rule 15 (then rule
    20) dated June 1942, was submitted to the Supreme Court for
    comment. The court had a number of unfavorable comments about
    allowing government depositions. These comments were not published.
    The only reference to the fact that the court made comments is in 2
    Orfield, Criminal Procedure under the Federal Rules Sec. 15:1
    (1966); and Orfield, Depositions in Federal Criminal Procedure, 9
    S.C.L.Q. 376, 380-381 (1957).
      The Advisory Committee, in the 1940's, continued to recommend the
    adoption of a provision authorizing government depositions. The
    final draft submitted to the Supreme Court contained a section
    providing:
      The following additional requirements shall apply if the
    deposition is taken at the instance of the government or of a
    witness. The officer having custody of a defendant shall be
    notified of the time and place set for examination, and shall
    produce him at the examination and keep him in the presence of the
    witness during the examination. A defendant not in custody shall be
    given notice and shall have the right to be present at the
    examination. The government shall pay in advance to the defendant's
    attorney and a defendant not in custody expenses of travel and
    subsistence for attendance at the examination.
      See 2 Orfield, Criminal Procedure under the Federal Rules Sec.
    15:3, pp. 447-448 (1966); Orfield, Depositions in Federal Criminal
    Procedure, 9 S.C.L.Q. 376, 383 (1957).
      The Supreme Court rejected this section in this entirety, thus
    eliminating the provision for depositions by the government. These
    changes were made without comment.
      The proposal to allow government depositions was renewed in the
    amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure in the early
    1960's. The Preliminary Draft of Proposed Amendments to Rules of
    Criminal Procedure for the United States District Courts (December
    1962) proposed to amend rule 15 by eliminating the words "of a
    defendant" from the first sentence of subdivision (a) and adding a
    subdivision (g) which was practically identical to the subdivision
    rejected by the Supreme Court in the original draft of the rules.
      The Second Preliminary Draft of Proposed Amendments to Rules of
    Criminal Procedure for the United States District Courts (March
    1964) continued to propose allowing governments depositions.
    Subdivision (g) was substantially modified, however.
      The following additional requirements shall apply if the
    deposition is taken at the instance of the government or a witness.
    Both the defendant and his attorney shall be given reasonable
    advance notice of the time and place set for the examination. The
    officer having custody of a defendant shall be notified of the time
    and place set for the examination, and shall produce him at the
    examination and keep him in the presence of the witness during the
    examination. A defendant not in custody shall have the right to be
    present at the examination but his failure to appear after notice
    and tender of expenses shall constitute a waiver of that right. The
    government shall pay to the defendant's attorney and to a defendant
    not in custody expenses of travel and subsistence for attendance at
    the examination. The government shall make available to the
    defendant for his examination and use at the taking of the
    deposition any statement of the witness being deposed which is in
    the possession of the government and which the government would be
    required to make available to the defendant if the witness were
    testifying at the trial.
      The proposal to authorize government depositions was rejected by
    the Standing Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure, C.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure Sec. 241 at 477 (1969). 4
    Barron, Federal Practice and Procedure (Supp. 1967). The Report of
    the Judicial Conference, submitted to the Supreme Court for
    approval late in 1965, contained no proposal for an amendment to
    rule 15. See 39 F.R.D. 69, 168-211 (1966).
      When the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 was originally
    introduced in the Senate (S. 30) it contained a government
    deposition provision which was similar to the 1964 proposal of the
    Criminal Rules Advisory Committee, except that the original bill
    (S. 30) failed to provide standards to control the use of
    depositions at the trial. For an explanation and defense of the
    original proposal see McClellan, The Organized Crime Act (S. 30) or
    Its Critics: Which Threatens Civil Liberties?, 46 Notre Dame Lawyer
    55, 100-108 (1970). This omission was remedied, prior to passage,
    with the addition of what is now 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3503(f) which
    prescribes the circumstances in which a deposition can be used. The
    standards are the same as those in former rule 15(e) with the
    addition of language allowing the use of the deposition when "the
    witness refuses in the trial or hearing to testify concerning the
    subject of the deposition or the part offered."
      Before the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 was enacted an
    additional amendment was added providing that the right of the
    government to take a deposition is limited to cases in which the
    Attorney General certifies that the defendant is "believed to have
    participated in an organized criminal activity" [18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3503(a)]. The argument in favor of the amendment was that the whole
    purpose of the act was to deal with organized crime and therefore
    its provisions, including that providing for government
    depositions, should be limited to organized crime type cases.
      There is another aspect of Advisory Committee history which is
    relevant. In January 1970, the Advisory Committee circulated
    proposed changes in rule 16, one of which gives the government,
    when it has disclosed the identity of its witnesses, the right to
    take a deposition and use it "in the event the witness has become
    unavailable without the fault of the government or if the witness
    has changed his testimony." [See Preliminary Draft of Proposed
    Amendments to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure for the
    United States District Courts, rule 16(a)(1)(vi) (January 1970).]
    This provision is now incorporated within rule 16(a)(1)(v).
      Because neither the court nor the standing committee gave reasons
    for rejecting the government deposition proposal, it is not
    possible to know why they were not approved. To the extent that the
    rejection was based upon doubts as to the constitutionality of such
    a proposal, those doubts now seem resolved by California v. Green,
    399 U.S. 149, 90 S.Ct. 1930, 26 L.Ed.2d 489 (1970).
      On the merits, the proposal to allow the government to take
    depositions is consistent with the revision of rule 16 and with
    section 804(b)(1) of the Rules of Evidence for the United States
    Courts and Magistrates (November 1971) which provides that the
    following is not excluded by the hearsay rule if the declarant is
    unavailable:
      (1) Former Testimony. Testimony given as a witness at another
    hearing of the same or a different proceeding, or in a deposition
    taken in compliance with law in the course of another proceeding,
    at the instance of or against a party with an opportunity to
    develop the testimony by direct, cross, or redirect examination,
    with motive and interest similar to those of the party against whom
    now offered.
      Subdivision (a) is revised to provide that the government as well
    as the defendant is entitled to take a deposition. The phrase
    "whenever due to special circumstances of the case it is in the
    interest of justice," is intended to make clear that the decision
    by the court as to whether to order the taking of a deposition
    shall be made in the context of the circumstances of the particular
    case. The principal objective is the preservation of evidence for
    use at trial. It is not to provide a method of pretrial discovery
    nor primarily for the purpose of obtaining a basis for later cross-
    examination of an adverse witness. Discovery is a matter dealt
    with in rule 16. An obviously important factor is whether a
    deposition will expedite, rather than delay, the administration of
    criminal justice. Also important is the presence or absence of
    factors which determine the use of a deposition at the trial, such
    as the agreement of the parties to use of the deposition; the
    possible unavailability of the witness; or the possibility that
    coercion may be used upon the witness to induce him to change his
    testimony or not to testify. See rule 16(a)(1)(v).
      Subdivision (a) also makes explicit that only the "testimony of a
    prospective witness of a party" can be taken. This means the
    party's own witness and does not authorize a discovery deposition
    of an adverse witness. The language "for use at trial" is intended
    to give further emphasis to the importance of the criteria for use
    specified in subdivision (e).
      In subdivision (b) reference is made to the defendant in custody.
    If he is in state custody, a writ of habeas corpus ad testificandum
    (to produce the prisoner for purposes of testimony) may be required
    to accomplish his presence.
      In subdivision (d) the language "except as otherwise provided in
    these rules" is meant to make clear that the subpoena provisions of
    rule 17 control rather than the provisions of the civil rules.
      The use of the phrase "and manner" in subdivision (d)(2) is
    intended to emphasize that the authorization is not to conduct an
    adverse examination of an opposing witness.
      In subdivision (e) the phrase "as substantive evidence" is added
    to make clear that the deposition can be used as evidence in chief
    as well as for purposes of impeachment.
      Subdivision (e) also makes clear that the deposition can be used
    as affirmative evidence whenever the witness is available but gives
    testimony inconsistent with that given in the deposition. A
    California statute which contained a similar provision was held
    constitutional in California v. Green, 399 U.S. 149, 90 S.Ct. 1930,
    26 L.Ed.2d 489 (1970). This is also consistent with section
    801(d)(1) of the Rules of Evidence for United States Courts and
    Magistrates (Nov. 1971).
      Subdivision (f) is intended to insure that a record of objections
    and the grounds for the objections is made at the time the
    deposition is taken when the witness is available so that the
    witness can be examined further, if necessary, on the point of the
    objection so that there will be an adequate record for the court's
    later ruling upon the objection.
      Subdivision (g) uses the "unavailability" definition of the Rules
    of Evidence for the United States Courts and Magistrates, 804(a)
    (Nov. 1971).
      Subdivision (h) is intended to make clear that the court always
    has authority to order the taking of a deposition, or to allow the
    use of a deposition, where there is an agreement of the parties to
    the taking or to the use.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 15 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure provides for the taking of
    depositions. The present rule permits only the defendant to move
    that a deposition of a prospective witness be taken. The court may
    grant the motion if it appears that (a) the prospective witness
    will be unable to attend or be prevented from attending the trial,
    (b) the prospective witness' testimony is material, and (c) the
    prospective witness' testimony is necessary to prevent a failure of
    justice.
      The Supreme Court promulgated several amendments to Rule 15. The
    more significant amendments are described below.
      Subdivision (a) as proposed to be amended permits either party to
    move the court for the taking of a deposition of a witness.
    However, a party may only move to take the deposition of one of its
    own witnesses, not one of the adversary party's witnesses.
      Subdivision (c) as proposed to be amended provides that whenever
    a deposition is taken at the instance of the government or of an
    indigent defendant, the expenses of the taking of the deposition
    must be paid by the government.
      Subdivision (e) as proposed to be amended provides that part or
    all of the deposition may be used at trial as substantive evidence
    if the witness is "unavailable" or if the witness gives testimony
    inconsistent with his deposition.
      Subdivision (b)[(g)] as proposed to be amended defines
    "unavailable." "Unavailable" as a witness includes situations in
    which the deponent:
        (1) is exempted by ruling of the judge on the ground of
      privilege from testifying concerning the subject matter of his
      deposition; or
        (2) persists in refusing to testify concerning the subject
      matter of his deposition despite an order of the judge to do so;
      or
        (3) testifies to a lack of memory of the subject matter of his
      deposition; or
        (4) is unable to be present or to testify at the hearing
      because of death or then existing physical or mental illness or
      infirmity; or
        (5) is absent from the hearing and the proponent of his
      deposition has been unable to procure his attendance by process
      or other reasonable means. A deponent is not unavailable as a
      witness if his exemption, refusal, claim of lack of memory,
      inability, or absence is due to the procurement or wrongdoing of
      the proponent of his deposition for the purpose of preventing the
      witness from attending or testifying.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee narrowed the definition of
    "unavailability" in subdivision (g). The Committee deleted language
    from that subdivision that provided that a witness was
    "unavailable" if the court exempts him from testifying at the trial
    on the ground of privilege. The Committee does not want to
    encourage the use of depositions at trial, especially in view of
    the importance of having live testimony from a witness on the
    witness stand.
      The Committee added a provision to subdivision (b) to parallel
    the provision of Rule 43(b)(2). This is to make it clear that a
    disruptive defendant may be removed from the place where a
    deposition is being taken.
      The Committee added language to subdivision (c) to make clear
    that the government must pay for the cost of the transcript of a
    deposition when the deposition is taken at the instance of an
    indigent defendant or of the government. In order to use a
    deposition at trial, it must be transcribed. The proposed rule did
    not explicitly provide for payment of the cost of transcribing, and
    the Committee change rectifies this.
      The Committee notes that subdivision (e) permits the use of a
    deposition when the witness "gives testimony at the trial or
    hearing inconsistent with his deposition." Since subdivision (e)
    refers to the rules of evidence, the Committee understands that the
    Federal Rules of Evidence will govern the admissibility and use of
    the deposition. The Committee, by adopting subdivision (e) as
    proposed to be amended by the Supreme Court, intends the Federal
    Rules of Evidence to govern the admissibility and use of the
    deposition.
      The Committee believes that Rule 15 will not encourage trials by
    deposition. A deposition may be taken only in "exceptional
    circumstances" when "it is in the interest of justice that the
    testimony of a prospective witness of a party be taken and
    preserved. * * *" A deposition, once it is taken, is not
    automatically admissible at trial, however. It may only be used at
    trial if the witness is unavailable, and the rule narrowly defines
    unavailability. The procedure established in Rule 15 is similar to
    the procedure established by the Organized Crime Control Act of
    1970 for the taking and use of depositions in organized crime
    cases. See 18 U.S.C. 3503.

    CONFERENCE COMMITTEE NOTES, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-414; 1975 AMENDMENT
      Rule 15 deals with the taking of depositions and the use of
    depositions at trial. Rule 15(e) permits a deposition to be used if
    the witness is unavailable. Rule 15(g) defines that term.
      The Supreme Court's proposal defines five circumstances in which
    the witness will be considered unavailable. The House version of
    the bill deletes a provision that said a witness is unavailable if
    he is exempted at trial, on the ground of privilege, from
    testifying about the subject matter of his deposition. The Senate
    version of the bill by cross reference to the Federal Rules of
    Evidence, restores the Supreme Court proposal.
      The Conference adopts the Senate provision.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 15 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      In Rule 15(a), the list of materials to be produced has been
    amended to include the expansive term "data" to reflect the fact
    that in an increasingly technological culture, the information may
    exist in a format not already covered by the more conventional
    list, such as a book or document.
      The last portion of current Rule 15(b), dealing with the
    defendant's presence at a deposition, has been moved to amended
    Rule 15(c).
      Revised Rule 15(d) addresses the payment of expenses incurred by
    the defendant and the defendant's attorney. Under the current rule,
    if the government requests the deposition, or if the defendant
    requests the deposition and is unable to pay for it, the court may
    direct the government to pay for travel and subsistence expenses
    for both the defendant and the defendant's attorney. In either
    case, the current rule requires the government to pay for the
    transcript. Under the amended rule, if the government requested the
    deposition, the court must require the government to pay reasonable
    subsistence and travel expenses and the cost of the deposition
    transcript. If the defendant is unable to pay the deposition
    expenses, the court must order the government to pay reasonable
    subsistence and travel expenses and the deposition transcript costs
    - regardless of who requested the deposition. Although the current
    rule places no apparent limits on the amount of funds that should
    be reimbursed, the Committee believed that insertion of the word
    "reasonable" was consistent with current practice.
      Rule 15(f) is intended to more clearly reflect that the
    admissibility of any deposition taken under the rule is governed
    not by the rule itself, but instead by the Federal Rules of
    Evidence.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Evidence, referred to in subd. (f), are set
    out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1984 - Subd. (a). Pub. L. 98-473 substituted "detained pursuant
    to section 3144 of title 18, United States Code" for "committed for
    failure to give bail to appear to testify at a trial or hearing".
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subds. (a), (b), (c), and (e)
    generally, struck out subd. (g), and redesignated subd. (h) as (g).

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 16                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 16. Discovery and Inspection

-STATUTE-
      (a) Government's Disclosure.
        (1) Information Subject to Disclosure.
          (A) Defendant's Oral Statement. Upon a defendant's request,
        the government must disclose to the defendant the substance of
        any relevant oral statement made by the defendant, before or
        after arrest, in response to interrogation by a person the
        defendant knew was a government agent if the government intends
        to use the statement at trial.
          (B) Defendant's Written or Recorded Statement. Upon a
        defendant's request, the government must disclose to the
        defendant, and make available for inspection, copying, or
        photographing, all of the following:
            (i) any relevant written or recorded statement by the
          defendant if:
              -- statement is within the government's possession,
            custody, or control; and
              -- the attorney for the government knows - or through due
            diligence could know - that the statement exists;

            (ii) the portion of any written record containing the
          substance of any relevant oral statement made before or after
          arrest if the defendant made the statement in response to
          interrogation by a person the defendant knew was a government
          agent; and
            (iii) the defendant's recorded testimony before a grand
          jury relating to the charged offense.

          (C) Organizational Defendant. Upon a defendant's request, if
        the defendant is an organization, the government must disclose
        to the defendant any statement described in Rule 16(a)(1)(A)
        and (B) if the government contends that the person making the
        statement:
            (i) was legally able to bind the defendant regarding the
          subject of the statement because of that person's position as
          the defendant's director, officer, employee, or agent; or
            (ii) was personally involved in the alleged conduct
          constituting the offense and was legally able to bind the
          defendant regarding that conduct because of that person's
          position as the defendant's director, officer, employee, or
          agent.

          (D) Defendant's Prior Record. Upon a defendant's request, the
        government must furnish the defendant with a copy of the
        defendant's prior criminal record that is within the
        government's possession, custody, or control if the attorney
        for the government knows - or through due diligence could know -
         that the record exists.
          (E) Documents and Objects. Upon a defendant's request, the
        government must permit the defendant to inspect and to copy or
        photograph books, papers, documents, data, photographs,
        tangible objects, buildings or places, or copies or portions of
        any of these items, if the item is within the government's
        possession, custody, or control and:
            (i) the item is material to preparing the defense;
            (ii) the government intends to use the item in its case-in-
          chief at trial; or
            (iii) the item was obtained from or belongs to the
          defendant.

          (F) Reports of Examinations and Tests. Upon a defendant's
        request, the government must permit a defendant to inspect and
        to copy or photograph the results or reports of any physical or
        mental examination and of any scientific test or experiment if:
            (i) the item is within the government's possession,
          custody, or control;
            (ii) the attorney for the government knows - or through due
          diligence could know - that the item exists; and
            (iii) the item is material to preparing the defense or the
          government intends to use the item in its case-in-chief at
          trial.

          (G) Expert Witnesses. At the defendant's request, the
        government must give to the defendant a written summary of any
        testimony that the government intends to use under Rules 702,
        703, or 705 of the Federal Rules of Evidence during its case-in-
        chief at trial. If the government requests discovery under
        subdivision (b)(1)(C)(ii) and the defendant complies, the
        government must, at the defendant's request, give to the
        defendant a written summary of testimony that the government
        intends to use under Rules 702, 703, or 705 of the Federal
        Rules of Evidence as evidence at trial on the issue of the
        defendant's mental condition. The summary provided under this
        subparagraph must describe the witness's opinions, the bases
        and reasons for those opinions, and the witness's
        qualifications.

        (2) Information Not Subject to Disclosure. Except as Rule
      16(a)(1) provides otherwise, this rule does not authorize the
      discovery or inspection of reports, memoranda, or other internal
      government documents made by an attorney for the government or
      other government agent in connection with investigating or
      prosecuting the case. Nor does this rule authorize the discovery
      or inspection of statements made by prospective government
      witnesses except as provided in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500.
        (3) Grand Jury Transcripts. This rule does not apply to the
      discovery or inspection of a grand jury's recorded proceedings,
      except as provided in Rules 6, 12(h), 16(a)(1), and 26.2.

      (b) Defendant's Disclosure.
        (1) Information Subject to Disclosure.
          (A) Documents and Objects. If a defendant requests disclosure
        under Rule 16(a)(1)(E) and the government complies, then the
        defendant must permit the government, upon request, to inspect
        and to copy or photograph books, papers, documents, data,
        photographs, tangible objects, buildings or places, or copies
        or portions of any of these items if:
            (i) the item is within the defendant's possession, custody,
          or control; and
            (ii) the defendant intends to use the item in the
          defendant's case-in-chief at trial.

          (B) Reports of Examinations and Tests. If a defendant
        requests disclosure under Rule 16(a)(1)(F) and the government
        complies, the defendant must permit the government, upon
        request, to inspect and to copy or photograph the results or
        reports of any physical or mental examination and of any
        scientific test or experiment if:
            (i) the item is within the defendant's possession, custody,
          or control; and
            (ii) the defendant intends to use the item in the
          defendant's case-in-chief at trial, or intends to call the
          witness who prepared the report and the report relates to the
          witness's testimony.

          (C) Expert Witnesses. The defendant must, at the government's
        request, give to the government a written summary of any
        testimony that the defendant intends to use under Rules 702,
        703, or 705 of the Federal Rules of Evidence as evidence at
        trial, if - 
            (i) the defendant requests disclosure under subdivision
          (a)(1)(G) and the government complies; or
            (ii) the defendant has given notice under Rule 12.2(b) of
          an intent to present expert testimony on the defendant's
          mental condition.

        This summary must describe the witness's opinions, the bases
        and reasons for those opinions, and the witness's
        qualifications[.]

        (2) Information Not Subject to Disclosure. Except for
      scientific or medical reports, Rule 16(b)(1) does not authorize
      discovery or inspection of:
          (A) reports, memoranda, or other documents made by the
        defendant, or the defendant's attorney or agent, during the
        case's investigation or defense; or
          (B) a statement made to the defendant, or the defendant's
        attorney or agent, by:
            (i) the defendant;
            (ii) a government or defense witness; or
            (iii) a prospective government or defense witness.

      (c) Continuing Duty to Disclose. A party who discovers additional
    evidence or material before or during trial must promptly disclose
    its existence to the other party or the court if:
        (1) the evidence or material is subject to discovery or
      inspection under this rule; and
        (2) the other party previously requested, or the court ordered,
      its production.

      (d) Regulating Discovery.
        (1) Protective and Modifying Orders. At any time the court may,
      for good cause, deny, restrict, or defer discovery or inspection,
      or grant other appropriate relief. The court may permit a party
      to show good cause by a written statement that the court will
      inspect ex parte. If relief is granted, the court must preserve
      the entire text of the party's statement under seal.
        (2) Failure to Comply. If a party fails to comply with this
      rule, the court may:
          (A) order that party to permit the discovery or inspection;
        specify its time, place, and manner; and prescribe other just
        terms and conditions;
          (B) grant a continuance;
          (C) prohibit that party from introducing the undisclosed
        evidence; or
          (D) enter any other order that is just under the
        circumstances.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 22, 1974, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 3(20)-(28), July 31, 1975, 89
    Stat. 374, 375; Pub. L. 94-149, Sec. 5, Dec. 12, 1975, 89 Stat.
    806; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1, 1983; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1,
    1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1,
    1993; Apr. 29, 1994, eff. Dec. 1, 1994; Apr. 11, 1997, eff. Dec. 1,
    1997; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Pub. L. 107-273, div. C,
    title I, Sec. 11019(b), Nov. 2, 2002, 117 Stat. 1825.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Whether under existing law discovery may be permitted in criminal
    cases is doubtful, United States v. Rosenfeld, 57 F.2d 74 (C.C.A.
    2d) - cert. den., 286 U.S. 556. The courts have, however, made
    orders granting to the defendant an opportunity to inspect
    impounded documents belonging to him, United States v. B. Goedde
    and Co., 40 F.Supp. 523, 534 (E.D.Ill.). The rule is a restatement
    of this procedure. In addition, it permits the procedure to be
    invoked in cases of objects and documents obtained from others by
    seizure or by process, on the theory that such evidential matter
    would probably have been accessible to the defendant if it had not
    previously been seized by the prosecution. The entire matter is
    left within the discretion of the court.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The extent to which pretrial discovery should be permitted in
    criminal cases is a complex and controversial issue. The problems
    have been explored in detail in recent legal literature, most of
    which has been in favor of increasing the range of permissible
    discovery. See, e.g. Brennan, The Criminal Prosecution: Sporting
    Event or Quest for Truth, 1963 Wash.U.L.Q. 279; Everett, Discovery
    in Criminal Cases - In Search of a Standard, 1964 Duke L.J. 477;
    Fletcher, Pretrial Discovery in State Criminal Cases, 12
    Stan.L.Rev. 293 (1960); Goldstein, The State and the Accused:
    Balance of Advantage in Criminal Procedure, 69 Yale L.J. 1149, 1172-
    1198 (1960); Krantz, Pretrial Discovery in Criminal Cases: A
    Necessity for Fair and Impartial Justice, 42 Neb.L.Rev. 127 (1962);
    Louisell, Criminal Discovery: Dilemma Real or Apparent, 49
    Calif.L.Rev. 56 (1961); Louisell, The Theory of Criminal Discovery
    and the Practice of Criminal Law, 14 Vand.L.Rev. 921 (1961); Moran,
    Federal Criminal Rules Changes: Aid or Illusion for the Indigent
    Defendant? 51 A.B.A.J. 64 (1965); Symposium, Discovery in Federal
    Criminal Cases, 33 F.R.D. 47-128 (1963); Traynor, Ground Lost and
    Found in Criminal Discovery, 39 N.Y.U.L.Rev. 228 (1964);
    Developments in the Law - Discovery, 74 Harv.L.Rev. 940, 1051-1063.
    Full judicial exploration of the conflicting policy considerations
    will be found in State v. Tune, 13 N.J. 203, 98 A.2d 881 (1953) and
    State v. Johnson, 28 N.J. 133, 145 A.2d 313 (1958); cf. State v.
    Murphy, 36 N.J. 172, 175 A.2d 622 (1961); State v. Moffa, 36 N.J.
    219, 176 A.2d 1 (1961). The rule has been revised to expand the
    scope of pretrial discovery. At the same time provisions are made
    to guard against possible abuses.
      Subdivision (a). - The court is authorized to order the attorney
    for the government to permit the defendant to inspect and copy or
    photograph three different types of material:
      (1) Relevant written or recorded statements or confessions made
    by the defendant, or copies thereof. The defendant is not required
    to designate because he may not always be aware that his statements
    or confessions are being recorded. The government's obligation is
    limited to production of such statements as are within the
    possession, custody or control of the government, the existence of
    which is known, or by the exercise of due diligence may become
    known, to the attorney for the government. Discovery of statements
    and confessions is in line with what the Supreme Court has
    described as the "better practice" (Cicenia v. LaGay, 357 U.S. 504,
    511 (1958)), and with the law in a number of states. See e.g., Del.
    Rules Crim. Proc., Rule 16; Ill.Stat. Ch. 38, Sec. 729; Md. Rules
    Proc., Rule 728; State v. McGee, 91 Ariz. 101, 370 P.2d 261 (1962);
    Cash v. Superior Court, 53 Cal.2d 72, 346 P.2d 407 (1959); State v.
    Bickham, 239 La. 1094, 121 So.2d 207, cert. den. 364 U.S. 874
    (1960); People v. Johnson, 356 Mich. 619, 97 N.W.2d 739 (1959);
    State v. Johnson, supra; People v. Stokes, 24 Miss.2d 755, 204
    N.Y.Supp.2d 827 (Ct.Gen.Sess. 1960). The amendment also makes it
    clear that discovery extends to recorded as well as written
    statements. For state cases upholding the discovery of recordings,
    see, e.g., People v. Cartier, 51 Cal.2d 590, 335 P.2d 114 (1959);
    State v. Minor, 177 A.2d 215 (Del.Super.Ct. 1962).
      (2) Relevant results or reports of physical or mental
    examinations, and of scientific tests or experiments (including
    fingerprint and handwriting comparisons) made in connection with
    the particular case, or copies thereof. Again the defendant is not
    required to designate but the government's obligation is limited to
    production of items within the possession, custody or control of
    the government, the existence of which is known, or by the exercise
    of due diligence may become known, to the attorney for the
    government. With respect to results or reports of scientific tests
    or experiments the range of materials which must be produced by the
    government is further limited to those made in connection with the
    particular case. Cf. Fla.Stats. Sec. 909.18; State v. Superior
    Court, 90 Ariz. 133, 367 P.2d 6 (1961); People v. Cooper, 53 Cal.2d
    755, 770, 3 Cal.Rptr. 148, 157, 349 P.2d 1964, 973 (1960); People
    v. Stokes, supra, at 762, 204 N.Y.Supp.2d at 835.
      (3) Relevant recorded testimony of a defendant before a grand
    jury. The policy which favors pretrial disclosure to a defendant of
    his statements to government agents also supports, pretrial
    disclosure of his testimony before a grand jury. Courts, however,
    have tended to require a showing of special circumstances before
    ordering such disclosure. See, e.g., United States v. Johnson, 215
    F.Supp. 300 (D.Md. 1963). Disclosure is required only where the
    statement has been recorded and hence can be transcribed.
      Subdivision (b). - This subdivision authorizes the court to order
    the attorney for the government to permit the defendant to inspect
    the copy or photograph all other books, papers, documents, tangible
    objects, buildings or places, or copies or portions thereof, which
    are within the possession, custody or control of the government.
    Because of the necessarily broad and general terms in which the
    items to be discovered are described, several limitations are
    imposed:
      (1) While specific designation is not required of the defendant,
    the burden is placed on him to make a showing of materiality to the
    preparation of his defense and that his request is reasonable. The
    requirement of reasonableness will permit the court to define and
    limit the scope of the government's obligation to search its files
    while meeting the legitimate needs of the defendant. The court is
    also authorized to limit discovery to portions of items sought.
      (2) Reports, memoranda, and other internal government documents
    made by government agents in connection with the investigation or
    prosecution of the case are exempt from discovery. Cf. Palermo v.
    United States, 360 U.S. 343 (1959); Ogden v. United States, 303
    F.2d 724 (9th Cir. 1962).
      (3) Except as provided for reports of examinations and tests in
    subdivision (a)(2), statements made by government witnesses or
    prospective government witnesses to agents of the government are
    also exempt from discovery except as provided by 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3500.
      Subdivision (c). - This subdivision permits the court to
    condition a discovery order under subdivision (a)(2) and
    subdivision (b) by requiring the defendant to permit the government
    to discover similar items which the defendant intends to produce at
    the trial and which are within his possession, custody or control
    under restrictions similar to those placed in subdivision (b) upon
    discovery by the defendant. While the government normally has
    resources adequate to secure the information necessary for trial,
    there are some situations in which mutual disclosure would appear
    necessary to prevent the defendant from obtaining an unfair
    advantage. For example, in cases where both prosecution and defense
    have employed experts to make psychiatric examinations, it seems as
    important for the government to study the opinions of the experts
    to be called by the defendant in order to prepare for trial as it
    does for the defendant to study those of the government's
    witnesses. Or in cases (such as antitrust cases) in which the
    defendant is well represented and well financed, mutual disclosure
    so far as consistent with the privilege against self-incrimination
    would seem as appropriate as in civil cases. State cases have
    indicated that a requirement that the defendant disclose in advance
    of trial materials which he intends to use on his own behalf at the
    trial is not a violation of the privilege against self-
    incrimination. See Jones v. Superior Court, 58 Cal.2d 56, 22
    Cal.Rptr. 879, 372 P.2d 919 (1962); People v. Lopez, 60 Cal.2d 223,
    32 Cal.Rptr. 424, 384 P.2d 16 (1963); Traynor, Ground Lost and
    Found in Criminal Discovery. 39 N.Y.U.L.Rev. 228, 246 (1964);
    Comment, The Self-Incrimination Privilege: Barrier to Criminal
    Discovery, 51 Calif.L.Rev. 135 (1963); Note, 76 Harv.L.Rev. 828
    (1963).
      Subdivision (d). - This subdivision is substantially the same as
    the last sentence of the existing rule.
      Subdivision (e). - This subdivision gives the court authority to
    deny, restrict or defer discovery upon a sufficient showing.
    Control of the abuses of discovery is necessary if it is to be
    expanded in the fashion proposed in subdivisions (a) and (b). Among
    the considerations to be taken into account by the court will be
    the safety of witnesses and others, a particular danger of perjury
    or witness intimidation, the protection of information vital to the
    national security, and the protection of business enterprises from
    economic reprisals.
      For an example of a use of a protective order in state practice,
    see People v. Lopez, 60 Cal.2d 223, 32 Cal.Rptr. 424, 384 P.2d 16
    (1963). See also Brennan, Remarks on Discovery, 33 F.R.D. 56, 65
    (1963); Traynor, Ground Lost and Found in Criminal Discovery, 39
    N.Y.U.L.Rev. 228, 244, 250.
      In some cases it would defeat the purpose of the protective order
    if the government were required to make its showing in open court.
    The problem arises in its most extreme form where matters of
    national security are involved. Hence a procedure is set out where
    upon motion by the government the court may permit the government
    to make its showing, in whole or in part, in a written statement to
    be inspected by the court in camera. If the court grants relief
    based on such showing, the government's statement is to be sealed
    and preserved in the records of the court to be made available to
    the appellate court in the event of an appeal by the defendant, Cf.
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500.
      Subdivision (f). - This subdivision is designed to encourage
    promptness in making discovery motions and to give the court
    sufficient control to prevent unnecessary delay and court time
    consequent upon a multiplication of discovery motions. Normally one
    motion should encompass all relief sought and a subsequent motion
    permitted only upon a showing of cause. Where pretrial hearings are
    used pursuant to Rule 17.1, discovery issues may be resolved at
    such hearings.
      Subdivision (g). - The first sentence establishes a continuing
    obligation on a party subject to a discovery order with respect to
    material discovered after initial compliance. The duty provided is
    to notify the other party, his attorney or the court of the
    existence of the material. A motion can then be made by the other
    party for additional discovery and, where the existence of the
    material is disclosed shortly before or during the trial, for any
    necessary continuance.
      The second sentence gives wide discretion to the court in dealing
    with the failure of either party to comply with a discovery order.
    Such discretion will permit the court to consider the reasons why
    disclosure was not made, the extent of the prejudice, if any, to
    the opposing party, the feasibility of rectifying that prejudice by
    a continuance, and any other relevant circumstances.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 16 is revised to give greater discovery to both the
    prosecution and the defense. Subdivision (a) deals with disclosure
    of evidence by the government. Subdivision (b) deals with
    disclosure of evidence by the defendant. The majority of the
    Advisory Committee is of the view that the two - prosecution and
    defense discovery - are related and that the giving of a broader
    right of discovery to the defense is dependent upon giving also a
    broader right of discovery to the prosecution.
      The draft provides for a right of prosecution discovery
    independent of any prior request for discovery by the defendant.
    The Advisory Committee is of the view that this is the most
    desirable approach to prosecution discovery. See American Bar
    Association, Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before
    Trial, pp. 7, 43-46 (Approved Draft, 1970).
      The language of the rule is recast from "the court may order" or
    "the court shall order" to "the government shall permit" or "the
    defendant shall permit." This is to make clear that discovery
    should be accomplished by the parties themselves, without the
    necessity of a court order unless there is dispute as to whether
    the matter is discoverable or a request for a protective order
    under subdivision (d)(1). The court, however, has the inherent
    right to enter an order under this rule.
      The rule is intended to prescribe the minimum amount of discovery
    to which the parties are entitled. It is not intended to limit the
    judge's discretion to order broader discovery in appropriate cases.
    For example, subdivision (a)(3) is not intended to deny a judge's
    discretion to order disclosure of grand jury minutes where
    circumstances make it appropriate to do so.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(A) amends the old rule to provide, upon
    request of the defendant, the government shall permit discovery if
    the conditions specified in subdivision (a)(1)(A) exist. Some
    courts have construed the current language as giving the court
    discretion as to whether to grant discovery of defendant's
    statements. See United States v. Kaminsky, 275 F.Supp. 365
    (S.D.N.Y. 1967), denying discovery because the defendant did not
    demonstrate that his request for discovery was warranted; United
    States v. Diliberto, 264 F.Supp. 181 (S.D.N.Y. 1967), holding that
    there must be a showing of actual need before discovery would be
    granted; United States v. Louis Carreau, Inc., 42 F.R.D. 408
    (S.D.N.Y. 1967), holding that in the absence of a showing of good
    cause the government cannot be required to disclose defendant's
    prior statements in advance of trial. In United States v. Louis
    Carreau, Inc., at p. 412, the court stated that if rule 16 meant
    that production of the statements was mandatory, the word "shall"
    would have been used instead of "may." See also United States v.
    Wallace, 272 F.Supp. 838 (S.D.N.Y. 1967); United States v. Wood,
    270 F.Supp. 963 (S.D.N.Y. 1967); United States v. Leighton, 265
    F.Supp. 27 (S.D.N.Y. 1967); United States v. Longarzo, 43 F.R.D.
    395 (S.D.N.Y. 1967); Loux v. United States, 389 F.2d 911 (9th Cir.
    1968); and the discussion of discovery in Discovery in Criminal
    Cases, 44 F.R.D. 481 (1968). Other courts have held that even
    though the current rules make discovery discretionary, the
    defendant need not show cause when he seeks to discover his own
    statements. See United States v. Aadal, 280 F.Supp. 859 (S.D.N.Y.
    1967); United States v. Federmann, 41 F.R.D. 339 (S.D.N.Y. 1967);
    and United States v. Projansky, 44 F.R.D. 550 (S.D.N.Y. 1968).
      The amendment making disclosure mandatory under the circumstances
    prescribed in subdivision (a)(1)(A) resolves such ambiguity as may
    currently exist, in the direction of more liberal discovery. See C.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 253 (1969,
    Supp. 1971), Rezneck, The New Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
    54 Geo.L.J. 1276 (1966); Fla.Stat.Ann. Sec. 925.05 (Supp. 1971-
    1972); N.J.Crim.Prac.Rule 35-11(a) (1967). This is done in the
    view that broad discovery contributes to the fair and efficient
    administration of criminal justice by providing the defendant with
    enough information to make an informed decision as to plea; by
    minimizing the undesirable effect of surprise at the trial; and by
    otherwise contributing to an accurate determination of the issue of
    guilt or innocence. This is the ground upon which the American Bar
    Association Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before
    Trial (Approved Draft, 1970) has unanimously recommended broader
    discovery. The United States Supreme Court has said that the
    pretrial disclosure of a defendant's statements "may be the 'better
    practice.' " Cicenia v. La Gay, 357 U.S. 504, 511, 78 S.Ct. 1297, 2
    L.Ed.2d 1523 (1958). See also Leland v. Oregon, 343 U.S. 790, 72
    S.Ct. 1002, 96 L.Ed. 1302 (1952); State v. Johnson, 28 N.J. 133,
    145 A.2d 313 (1958).
      The requirement that the statement be disclosed prior to trial,
    rather than waiting until the trial, also contributes to efficiency
    of administration. It is during the pretrial stage that the
    defendant usually decides whether to plead guilty. See United
    States v. Projansky, supra. The pretrial stage is also the time
    during which many objections to the admissibility of types of
    evidence ought to be made. Pretrial disclosure ought, therefore, to
    contribute both to an informed guilty plea practice and to a
    pretrial resolution of admissibility questions. See ABA, Standards
    Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec. 1.2 and
    Commentary pp. 40-43 (Approved Draft, 1970).
      The American Bar Association Standards mandate the prosecutor to
    make the required disclosure even though not requested to do so by
    the defendant. The proposed draft requires the defendant to request
    discovery, although obviously the attorney for the government may
    disclose without waiting for a request, and there are situations in
    which due process will require the prosecution, on its own, to
    disclose evidence "helpful" to the defense. Brady v. Maryland, 373
    U.S. 83, 83 S.Ct. 1194, 10 L.Ed.2d 215 (1963); Giles v. Maryland,
    386 U.S. 66, 87 S.Ct. 793, 17 L.Ed.2d 737 (1967).
      The requirement in subdivision (a)(1)(A) is that the government
    produce "statements" without further discussion of what "statement"
    includes. There has been some recent controversy over what
    "statements" are subject to discovery under the current rule. See
    Discovery in Criminal Cases, 44 F.R.D. 481 (1968); C. Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 253, pp. 505-506
    (1969, Supp. 1971). The kinds of "statements" which have been held
    to be within the rule include "substantially verbatim and
    contemporaneous" statements, United States v. Elife, 43 F.R.D. 23
    (S.D.N.Y. 1967); statements which reproduce the defendant's "exact
    words," United States v. Armantrout, 278 F.Supp. 517 (S.D.N.Y.
    1968); a memorandum which was not verbatim but included the
    substance of the defendant's testimony, United States v. Scharf,
    267 F.Supp. 19 (S.D.N.Y. 1967); Summaries of the defendant's
    statements, United States v. Morrison, 43 F.R.D. 516 (N.D.Ill.
    1967); and statements discovered by means of electronic
    surveillance, United States v. Black, 282 F.Supp. 35 (D.D.C. 1968).
    The court in United States v. Iovinelli, 276 F.Supp. 629, 631
    (N.D.Ill. 1967), declared that "statements" as used in old rule 16
    is not restricted to the "substantially verbatim recital of an oral
    statement" or to statements which are a "recital of past
    occurrences."
      The Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500, defines "statements" of
    government witnesses discoverable for purposes of cross-examination
    as: (1) a "written statement" signed or otherwise approved by a
    witness, (2) "a stenographic, mechanical, electrical, or other
    recording, or a transcription thereof, which is a substantially
    verbatim recital of an oral statement made by said witness to an
    agent of the government and recorded contemporaneously with the
    making of such oral statement." 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500(e). The
    language of the Jencks Act has most often led to a restrictive
    definition of "statements," confining "statements" to the
    defendant's "own words." See Hanks v. United States, 388 F.2d 171
    (10th Cir. 1968), and Augenblick v. United States, 377 F.2d 586,
    180 Ct.Cl. 131 (1967).
      The American Bar Association's Standards Relating to Discovery
    and Procedure Before Trial (Approved Draft, 1970) do not attempt to
    define "statements" because of a disagreement among members of the
    committee as to what the definition should be. The majority
    rejected the restrictive definition of "statements" contained in
    the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500(e), in the view that the
    defendant ought to be able to see his statement in whatever form it
    may have been preserved in fairness to the defendant and to
    discourage the practice, where it exists, of destroying original
    notes, after transforming them into secondary transcriptions, in
    order to avoid cross-examination based upon the original notes. See
    Campbell v. United States, 373 U.S. 487, 83 S.Ct. 1356, 10 L.Ed.2d
    501 (1963). The minority favored a restrictive definition of
    "statements" in the view that the use of other than "verbatim"
    statements would subject witnesses to unfair cross-examination. See
    American Bar Association's Standards Relating to Discovery and
    Procedure Before Trial pp. 61-64 (Approved Draft, 1970). The draft
    of subdivision (a)(1)(A) leaves the matter of the meaning of the
    term unresolved and thus left for development on a case-by-case
    basis.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(A) also provides for mandatory disclosure of a
    summary of any oral statement made by defendant to a government
    agent which the attorney for the government intends to use in
    evidence. The reasons for permitting the defendant to discover his
    own statements seem obviously to apply to the substance of any oral
    statement which the government intends to use in evidence at the
    trial. See American Bar Association Standards Relating to Discovery
    and Procedure Before Trial Sec. 2.1(a)(ii) (Approved Draft, 1970).
    Certainly disclosure will facilitate the raising of objections to
    admissibility prior to trial. There have been several conflicting
    decisions under the current rules as to whether the government must
    disclose the substance of oral statements of the defendant which it
    has in its possession. Cf. United States v. Baker, 262 F.Supp. 657
    (D.C.D.C. 1966); United States v. Curry, 278 F.Supp. 508 (N.D.Ill.
    1967); United States v. Morrison, 43 F.R.D. 516 (ND.Ill. 1967);
    United States v. Reid, 43 F.R.D. 520 (ND.Ill. 1967); United States
    v. Armantrout, 278 F.Supp. 517 (S.D.N.Y. 1968); and United States
    v. Elife, 43 F.R.D. 23 (S.D.N.Y. 1967). There is, however,
    considerable support for the policy of disclosing the substance of
    the defendant's oral statement. Many courts have indicated that
    this is a "better practice" than denying such disclosure. E.g.,
    United States v. Curry, supra; Loux v. United States, 389 F.2d 911
    (9th Cir. 1968); and United States v. Baker, supra.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(A) also provides for mandatory disclosure of
    any "recorded testimony" which defendant gives before a grand jury
    if the testimony "relates to the offense charged." The present rule
    is discretionary and is applicable only to those of defendant's
    statements which are "relevant."
      The traditional rationale behind grand jury secrecy - protection
    of witnesses - does not apply when the accused seeks discovery of
    his own testimony. Cf. Dennis v. United States, 384 U.S. 855, 86
    S.Ct. 1840, 16 L.Ed.2d 973 (1966); and Allen v. United States, 129
    U.S.App.D.C. 61, 390 F.2d 476 (1968). In interpreting the rule many
    judges have granted defendant discovery without a showing of need
    or relevance. United States v. Gleason, 259 F.Supp. 282 (S.D.N.Y.
    1966); United States v. Longarzo, 43 F.R.D. 395 (S.D.N.Y. 1967);
    and United States v. United Concrete Pipe Corp., 41 F.R.D. 538
    (N.D.Tex. 1966). Making disclosure mandatory without a showing of
    relevance conforms to the recommendation of the American Bar
    Association Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before
    Trial Sec. 2.1(a)(iii) and Commentary pp. 64-66 (Approved Draft,
    1970). Also see Note, Discovery by a Criminal Defendant of His Own
    Grand-Jury Testimony, 68 Columbia L.Rev. 311 (1968).
      In a situation involving a corporate defendant, statements made
    by present and former officers and employees relating to their
    employment have been held discoverable as statements of the
    defendant. United States v. Hughes, 413 F.2d 1244 (5th Cir. 1969).
    The rule makes clear that such statements are discoverable if the
    officer or employee was "able legally to bind the defendant in
    respect to the activities involved in the charges."
      Subdivision (a)(1)(B) allows discovery of the defendant's prior
    criminal record. A defendant may be uncertain of the precise nature
    of his prior record and it seems therefore in the interest of
    efficient and fair administration to make it possible to resolve
    prior to trial any disputes as to the correctness of the relevant
    criminal record of the defendant.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(C) gives a right of discovery of certain
    tangible objects under the specified circumstances. Courts have
    construed the old rule as making disclosure discretionary with the
    judge. Cf. United States v. Kaminsky, 275 F.Supp. 365 (S.D.N.Y.
    1967); Gevinson v. United States, 358 F.2d 761 (5th Cir. 1966),
    cert. denied, 385 U.S. 823, 87 S.Ct. 51, 17 L.Ed.2d 60 (1966); and
    United States v. Tanner, 279 F.Supp. 457 (N.D.Ill. 1967). The old
    rule requires a "showing of materiality to the preparation of his
    defense and that the request is reasonable." The new rule requires
    disclosure if any one of three situations exists: (a) the defendant
    shows that disclosure of the document or tangible object is
    material to the defense, (b) the government intends to use the
    document or tangible object in its presentation of its case in
    chief, or (c) the document or tangible object was obtained from or
    belongs to the defendant.
      Disclosure of documents and tangible objects which are "material"
    to the preparation of the defense may be required under the rule of
    Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83, 83 S.Ct. 1194, 10 L.Ed.2d 215
    (1963), without an additional showing that the request is
    "reasonable." In Brady the court held that "due process" requires
    that the prosecution disclose evidence favorable to the accused.
    Although the Advisory Committee decided not to codify the Brady
    Rule, the requirement that the government disclose documents and
    tangible objects "material to the preparation of his defense"
    underscores the importance of disclosure of evidence favorable to
    the defendant.
      Limiting the rule to situations in which the defendant can show
    that the evidence is material seems unwise. It may be difficult for
    a defendant to make this showing if he does not know what the
    evidence is. For this reason subdivision (a)(1)(C) also contains
    language to compel disclosure if the government intends to use the
    property as evidence at the trial or if the property was obtained
    from or belongs to the defendant. See ABA Standards Relating to
    Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec. 2.1(a)(v) and Commentary
    pp. 68-69 (Approved Draft, 1970). This is probably the result under
    old rule 16 since the fact that the government intends to use the
    physical evidence at the trial is probably sufficient proof of
    "materiality." C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal
    Sec. 254 especially n. 70 at p. 513 (1969, Supp. 1971). But it
    seems desirable to make this explicit in the rule itself.
      Requiring disclosure of documents and tangible objects which
    "were obtained from or belong to the defendant" probably is also
    making explicit in the rule what would otherwise be the
    interpretation of "materiality." See C. Wright, Federal Practice
    and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 254 at p. 510 especially n. 58 (1969,
    Supp. 1971).
      Subdivision (a)(1)(C) is also amended to add the word
    "photographs" to the objects previously listed. See ABA Standards
    Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec. 2.1(a)(v)
    (Approved Draft, 1970).
      Subdivision (a)(1)(D) makes disclosure of the reports of
    examinations and tests mandatory. This is the recommendation of the
    ABA Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec.
    2.1(a)(iv) and Commentary pp. 66-68 (Approved Draft, 1970). The
    obligation of disclosure applies only to scientific tests or
    experiments "made in connection with the particular case." So
    limited, mandatory disclosure seems justified because: (1) it is
    difficult to test expert testimony at trial without advance notice
    and preparation; (2) it is not likely that such evidence will be
    distorted or misused if disclosed prior to trial; and (3) to the
    extent that a test may be favorable to the defense, its disclosure
    is mandated under the rule of Brady v. Maryland, supra.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(E) is new. It provides for discovery of the
    names of witnesses to be called by the government and of the prior
    criminal record of these witnesses. Many states have statutes or
    rules which require that the accused be notified prior to trial of
    the witnesses to be called against him. See, e.g., Alaska
    R.Crim.Proc. 7(c); Ariz.R.Crim.Proc. 153, 17 A.R.S. (1956);
    Ark.Stat.Ann. Sec. 43-1001 (1947); Cal.Pen.Code Sec. 995n (West
    1957); Colo.Rev.Stat.Ann. Secs. 39-3-6, 39-4-2 (1963);
    Fla.Stat.Ann. Sec. 906.29 (1944); Idaho Code Ann. Sec. 19-1404
    (1948); Ill.Rev.Stat. ch. 38, Sec. 114-9 (1970); Ind.Ann.Stat. Sec.
    9-903 (1856), IC 1971, 35-1-16-3; Iowa Code Ann. Sec. 772.3 (1950);
    Kan.Stat.Ann. Sec. 62-931 (1964); Ky.R.Crim. Proc. 6.08 (1962);
    Mich.Stat.Ann. Sec. 28.980, M.C.L.A. Sec. 767.40 (Supp.1971);
    Minn.Stat.Ann. Sec. 628.08 (1947); Mo.Ann.Stat. Sec. 545.070
    (1953); Mont.Rev. Codes Ann. Sec. 95-1503 (Supp. 1969);
    Neb.Rev.Stat. Sec. 29-1602 (1964); Nev.Rev.Stat. Sec. 173.045
    (1967); Okl.Stat. tet. 22, Sec. 384 (1951); Ore.Rev.Stat. Sec.
    132.580 (1969); Tenn. Code Ann. Sec. 40-1708 (1955); Utah Code Ann.
    Sec. 77-20-3 (1953). For examples of the ways in which these
    requirements are implemented, see State v. Mitchell, 181 Kan. 193,
    310 P.2d 1063 (1957); State v. Parr, 129 Mont. 175, 283 P.2d 1086
    (1955); Phillips v. State, 157 Neb. 419, 59 N.W. 598 (1953).
      Witnesses' prior statements must be made available to defense
    counsel after the witness testifies on direct examination for
    possible impeachment purposes during trial: 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500.
      The American Bar Association's Standards Relating to Discovery
    and Procedure Before Trial Sec. 2.1(a)(i) (Approved Draft, 1970)
    require disclosure of both the names and the statements of
    prosecution witnesses. Subdivision (a)(1)(E) requires only
    disclosure, prior to trial, of names, addresses, and prior criminal
    record. It does not require disclosure of the witnesses' statements
    although the rule does not preclude the parties from agreeing to
    disclose statements prior to trial. This is done, for example, in
    courts using the so-called "omnibus hearing."
      Disclosure of the prior criminal record of witnesses places the
    defense in the same position as the government, which normally has
    knowledge of the defendant's record and the record of anticipated
    defense witnesses. In addition, the defendant often lacks means of
    procuring this information on his own. See American Bar Association
    Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec.
    2.1(a)(vi) (Approved Draft, 1970).
      A principal argument against disclosure of the identity of
    witnesses prior to trial has been the danger to the witness, his
    being subjected either to physical harm or to threats designed to
    make the witness unavailable or to influence him to change his
    testimony. Discovery in Criminal cases, 44 F.R.D. 481, 499-500
    (1968); Ratnoff, The New Criminal Deposition Statute in Ohio - Help
    or Hindrance to Justice?, 19 Case Western Reserve L.Rev. 279, 284
    (1968). See, e.g., United States v. Estep, 151 F.Supp. 668, 672-673
    (N.D. Tex. 1957):
        Ninety percent of the convictions had in the trial court for
      sale and dissemination of narcotic drugs are linked to the work
      and the evidence obtained by an informer. If that informer is not
      to have his life protected there won't be many informers
      hereafter.

      See also the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Clark in Roviaro
    v. United States, 353 U.S. 53, 66-67, 77 S.Ct. 623, 1 L.Ed.2d 639
    (1957). Threats of market retaliation against witnesses in criminal
    antitrust cases are another illustration. Bergen Drug Co. v. Parke,
    Davis & Company, 307 F.2d 725 (3d Cir. 1962); and House of
    Materials, Inc. v. Simplicity Pattern Co., 298 F.2d 867 (2d Cir.
    1962). The government has two alternatives when it believes
    disclosure will create an undue risk of harm to the witness: It can
    ask for a protective order under subdivision (d)(1). See ABA
    Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial Sec.
    2.5(b) (Approved Draft, 1970). It can also move the court to allow
    the perpetuation of a particular witness's testimony for use at
    trial if the witness is unavailable or later changes his testimony.
    The purpose of the latter alternative is to make pretrial
    disclosure possible and at the same time to minimize any inducement
    to use improper means to force the witness either to not show up or
    to change his testimony before a jury. See rule 15.
      Subdivision (a)(2) is substantially unchanged. It limits the
    discovery otherwise allowed by providing that the government need
    not disclose "reports, memoranda, or other internal government
    documents made by the attorney for the government or other
    government agents in connection with the investigation or
    prosecution of the case" or "statements made by government
    witnesses or prospective government witnesses." The only proposed
    change is that the "reports, memoranda, or other internal
    government documents made by the attorney for the government" are
    included to make clear that the work product of the government
    attorney is protected. See C. Wright, Federal Practice and
    Procedure: Criminal Sec. 254 n. 92 (1969, Supp. 1971); United
    States v. Rothman, 179 F.Supp. 935 (W.D.Pa. 1959); Note, "Work
    Product" in Criminal Discovery, 1966 Wash.U.L.Q. 321; American Bar
    Association, Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before
    Trial Sec. 2.6(a) (Approved Draft, 1970); cf. Hickman v. Taylor,
    329 U.S. 495, 67 S.Ct. 385, 91 L.Ed. 451 (1947). Brady v. Maryland,
    373 U.S. 83, 83 S.Ct. 1194, 10 L.Ed2d 215 (1963), requires the
    disclosure of evidence favorable to the defendant. This is, of
    course, not changed by this rule.
      Subdivision (a)(3) is included to make clear that recorded
    proceedings of a grand jury are explicitly dealt with in rule 6 and
    subdivision (a)(1)(A) of rule 16 and thus are not covered by other
    provisions such as subdivision (a)(1)(C) which deals generally with
    discovery of documents in the possession, custody, or control of
    the government.
      Subdivision (a)(4) is designed to insure that the government will
    not be penalized if it makes a full disclosure of all potential
    witnesses and then decides not to call one or more of the witnesses
    listed. This is not, however, intended to abrogate the defendant's
    right to comment generally upon the government's failure to call
    witnesses in an appropriate case.
      Subdivision (b) deals with the government's right to discovery of
    defense evidence or, put in other terms, with the extent to which a
    defendant is required to disclose its evidence to the prosecution
    prior to trial. Subdivision (b) replaces old subdivision (c).
      Subdivision (b) enlarges the right of government discovery in
    several ways: (1) it gives the government the right to discovery of
    lists of defense witnesses as well as physical evidence and the
    results of examinations and tests; (2) it requires disclosure if
    the defendant has the evidence under his control and intends to use
    it at trial in his case in chief, without the additional burden,
    required by the old rule, of having to show, in behalf of the
    government, that the evidence is material and the request
    reasonable; and (3) it gives the government the right to discovery
    without conditioning that right upon the existence of a prior
    request for discovery by the defendant.
      Although the government normally has resources adequate to secure
    much of the evidence for trial, there are situations in which
    pretrial disclosure of evidence to the government is in the
    interest of effective and fair criminal justice administration. For
    example, the experimental "omnibus hearing" procedure (see
    discussion in Advisory Committee Note to rule 12) is based upon an
    assumption that the defendant, as well as the government, will be
    willing to disclose evidence prior to trial.
      Having reached the conclusion that it is desirable to require
    broader disclosure by the defendant under certain circumstances,
    the Advisory Committee has taken the view that it is preferable to
    give the right of discovery to the government independently of a
    prior request for discovery by the defendant. This is the
    recommendation of the American Bar Association Standards Relating
    to Discovery and Procedure Before Trial, Commentary, pp. 43-46
    (Approved Draft, 1970). It is sometimes asserted that making the
    government's right to discovery conditional will minimize the risk
    that government discovery will be viewed as an infringement of the
    defendant's constitutional rights. See discussion in C. Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 256 (1969,
    Supp.1971); Moore, Criminal Discovery, 19 Hastings L.J. 865 (1968);
    Wilder, Prosecution Discovery and the Privilege Against Self-
    Incrimination, 6 Am.Cr.L.Q. 3 (1967). There are assertions that
    prosecution discovery, even if conditioned upon the defendants
    being granted discovery, is a violation of the privilege. See
    statements of Mr. Justice Black and Mr. Justice Douglas, 39 F.R.D.
    69, 272, 277-278 19 (1966); C. Wright, Federal Practice and
    Procedure: Criminal Sec. 256 (1969, Supp. 1971). Several states
    require defense disclosure of an intended defense of alibi and, in
    some cases, a list of witnesses in support of an alibi defense,
    without making the requirement conditional upon prior discovery
    being given to the defense. E.g., Ariz.R.Crim.P. 162(B), 17 A.R.S.
    (1956); Ind.Ann.Stat. Sec. 9-1631 to 9-1633 (1956), IC 1971, 35-5-1-
    1 to 35-5-1-3; Mich.Comp. Laws Ann. Secs. 768.20, 768.21 (1968);
    N.Y. CPL Sec. 250.20 (McKinney's Consol.Laws, c. 11-A, 1971); and
    Ohio Rev.Code Ann. Sec. 2945.58 (1954). State courts have refused
    to hold these statutes violative of the privilege against self-
    incrimination. See State v. Thayer, 124 Ohio St. 1, 176 N.E. 656
    (1931), and People v. Rakiec, 260 App.Div. 452, 23 N.Y.S.2d 607,
    aff'd, 289 N.Y. 306, 45 N.E.2d 812 (1942). See also rule 12.1 and
    Advisory Committee Note thereto.
      Some state courts have held that a defendant may be required to
    disclose, in advance of trial, evidence which he intends to use on
    his own behalf at trial without violating the privilege against
    self-incrimination. See Jones v. Superior Court of Nevada County,
    58 Cal.2d 56, 22 Cal.Rptr. 879, 372 P.2d 919 (1962); People v.
    Lopez, 60 Cal.2d 223, 32 Cal.Rptr. 424, 384 P.2d 16 (1963);
    Comment, The Self-Incrimination Privilege: Barrier to Criminal
    Discovery?, 51 Calif.L.Rev. 135 (1963); Note, 76 Harv.L.Rev. 838
    (1963). The courts in Jones v. Superior Court of Nevada County,
    supra, suggests that if mandatory disclosure applies only to those
    items which the accused intends to introduce in evidence at trial,
    neither the incriminatory nor the involuntary aspects of the
    privilege against self-incrimination are present.
      On balance the Advisory Committee is of the view that an
    independent right of discovery for both the defendant and the
    government is likely to contribute to both effective and fair
    administration. See Louisell, Criminal Discovery and Self-
    Incrimination: Roger Traynor Confronts the Dilemma, 53
    Calif.L.Rev. 89 (1965), for an analysis of the difficulty of
    weighing the value of broad discovery against the value which
    inheres in not requiring the defendant to disclose anything which
    might work to his disadvantage.
      Subdivision (b)(1)(A) provides that the defendant shall disclose
    any documents and tangible objects which he has in his possession,
    custody, or control and which he intends to introduce in evidence
    in his case in chief.
      Subdivision (b)(1)(B) provides that the defendant shall disclose
    the results of physical or mental examinations and scientific tests
    or experiments if (a) they were made in connection with a
    particular case; (b) the defendant has them under his control; and
    (c) he intends to offer them in evidence in his case in chief or
    which were prepared by a defense witness and the results or reports
    relate to the witness's testimony. In cases where both prosecution
    and defense have employed experts to conduct tests such as
    psychiatric examinations, it seems as important for the government
    to be able to study the results reached by defense experts which
    are to be called by the defendant as it does for the defendant to
    study those of government experts. See Schultz, Criminal Discovery
    by the Prosecution: Frontier Developments and Some Proposals for
    the Future, 22 N.Y.U.Intra.L.Rev. 268 (1967); American Bar
    Association, Standards Relating to Discovery and Procedure Before
    Trial Sec. 3.2 (Supp., Approved Draft, 1970).
      Subdivision (b)(1)(C) provides for discovery of a list of
    witnesses the defendant intends to call in his case in chief. State
    cases have indicated that disclosure of a list of defense witnesses
    does not violate the defendant's privilege against self-
    incrimination. See Jones v. Superior Court of Nevada County,
    supra, and People v. Lopez, supra. The defendant has the same
    option as does the government if it is believed that disclosure of
    the identity of a witness may subject that witness to harm or a
    threat of harm. The defendant can ask for a protective order under
    subdivision (d)(1) or can take a deposition in accordance with the
    terms of rule 15.
      Subdivision (b)(2) is unchanged, appearing as the last sentence
    of subdivision (c) of old rule 16.
      Subdivision (b)(3) provides that the defendant's failure to
    introduce evidence or call witnesses shall not be admissible in
    evidence against him. In states which require pretrial disclosure
    of witnesses' identity, the prosecution is not allowed to comment
    upon the defendant's failure to call a listed witness. See O'Connor
    v. State, 31 Wis.2d 684, 143 N.W.2d 489 (1966); People v. Mancini,
    6 N.Y.2d 853, 188 N.Y.S.2d 559, 160 N.E.2d 91 (1959); and State v.
    Cocco, 73 Ohio App. 182, 55 N.E.2d 430 (1943). This is not,
    however, intended to abrogate the government's right to comment
    generally upon the defendant's failure to call witnesses in an
    appropriate case, other than the defendant's failure to testify.
      Subdivision (c) is a restatement of part of old rule 16(g).
      Subdivision (d)(1) deals with the protective order. Although the
    rule does not attempt to indicate when a protective order should be
    entered, it is obvious that one would be appropriate where there is
    reason to believe that a witness would be subject to physical or
    economic harm if his identity is revealed. See Will v. United
    States, 389 U.S. 90, 88 S.Ct. 269, 19 L.Ed.2d 305 (1967). The
    language "by the judge alone" is not meant to be inconsistent with
    Alderman v. United States, 394 U.S. 165, 89 S.Ct. 961, 22 L.Ed.2d
    176 (1969). In Alderman the court points out that there may be
    appropriate occasions for the trial judge to decide questions
    relating to pretrial disclosure. See Alderman v. United States, 394
    U.S. at 182 n. 14, 89 S.Ct. 961.
      Subdivision (d)(2) is a restatement of part of old rule 16(g) and
    (d).
      Old subdivision (f) of rule 16 dealing with time of motions is
    dropped because rule 12(c) provides the judge with authority to set
    the time for the making of pretrial motions including requests for
    discovery. Rule 12 also prescribes the consequences which follow
    from a failure to make a pretrial motion at the time fixed by the
    court. See rule 12(f).

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 16 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure regulates discovery by the
    defendant of evidence in possession of the prosecution, and
    discovery by the prosecution of evidence in possession of the
    defendant. The present rule permits the defendant to move the court
    to discover certain material. The prosecutor's discovery is limited
    and is reciprocal - that is, if the defendant is granted discovery
    of certain items, then the prosecution may move for discovery of
    similar items under the defendant's control.
      As proposed to be amended, the rule provides that the parties
    themselves will accomplish discovery - no motion need be filed and
    no court order is necessary. The court will intervene only to
    resolve a dispute as to whether something is discoverable or to
    issue a protective order.
      The proposed rule enlarges the scope of the defendant's discovery
    to include a copy of his prior criminal record and a list of the
    names and addresses, plus record of prior felony convictions, of
    all witnesses the prosecution intends to call during its case-in-
    chief. It also permits the defendant to discover the substance of
    any oral statement of his which the prosecution intends to offer at
    trial, if the statement was given in response to interrogation by
    any person known by defendant to be a government agent.
      Proposed subdivision (a)(2) provides that Rule 16 does not
    authorize the defendant to discover "reports, memoranda, or other
    internal government documents made by the attorney for the
    government or other government agents in connection with the
    investigation or prosecution of the case. . . ."
      The proposed rule also enlarges the scope of the government's
    discovery of materials in the custody of the defendant. The
    government is entitled to a list of the names and addresses of the
    witnesses the defendant intends to call during his case-in-chief.
    Proposed subdivision (b)(2) protects the defendant from having to
    disclose "reports, memoranda, or other internal defense documents .
    . . made in connection with the investigation or defense of the
    case. . . ."
      Subdivision (d)(1) of the proposed rule permits the court to
    deny, restrict, or defer discovery by either party, or to make such
    other order as is appropriate. Upon request, a party may make a
    showing that such an order is necessary. This showing shall be made
    to the judge alone if the party so requests. If the court enters an
    order after such a showing, it must seal the record of the showing
    and preserve it in the event there is an appeal.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee agrees that the parties
    should, to the maximum possible extent, accomplish discovery
    themselves. The court should become involved only when it is
    necessary to resolve a dispute or to issue an order pursuant to
    subdivision (d).
      Perhaps the most controversial amendments to this rule were those
    dealing with witness lists. Under present law, the government must
    turn over a witness list only in capital cases. [Section 3432 of
    title 18 of the United States Code provides: A person charged with
    treason or other capital offense shall at least three entire days
    before commencement of trial be furnished with a copy of the
    indictment and a list of the veniremen, and of the witnesses to be
    produced on the trial for proving the indictment, stating the place
    of abode of each venireman and witness.] The defendant never needs
    to turn over a list of his witnesses. The proposed rule requires
    both the government and the defendant to turn over witness lists in
    every case, capital or noncapital. Moreover, the lists must be
    furnished to the adversary party upon that party's request.
      The proposed rule was sharply criticized by both prosecutors and
    defenders. The prosecutors feared that pretrial disclosure of
    prosecution witnesses would result in harm to witnesses. The
    defenders argued that a defendant cannot constitutionally be
    compelled to disclose his witnesses.
      The Committee believes that it is desirable to promote greater
    pretrial discovery. As stated in the Advisory Committee Note,
      broader discovery by both the defense and the prosecution will
      contribute to the fair and efficient administration of criminal
      justice by aiding in informed plea negotiations, by minimizing
      the undesirable effect of surprise at trial, and by otherwise
      contributing to an accurate determination of the issue of guilt
      or innocence. . . .
      The Committee, therefore, endorses the principle that witness
    lists are discoverable. However, the Committee has attempted to
    strike a balance between the narrow provisions of existing law and
    the broad provisions of the proposed rule.
      The Committee rule makes the procedures defendant-triggered. If
    the defendant asks for and receives a list of prosecution
    witnesses, then the prosecution may request a list of defense
    witnesses. The witness lists need not be turned over until 3 days
    before trial. The court can modify the terms of discovery upon a
    sufficient showing. Thus, the court can require disclosure of the
    witness lists earlier than 3 days before trial, or can permit a
    party not to disclose the identity of a witness before trial.
      The Committee provision promotes broader discovery and its
    attendant values - informed disposition of cases without trial,
    minimizing the undesirable effect of surprise, and helping insure
    that the issue of guilt or innocence is accurately determined. At
    the same time, it avoids the problems suggested by both the
    prosecutors and the defenders.
      The major argument advanced by prosecutors is the risk of danger
    to their witnesses if their identities are disclosed prior to
    trial. The Committee recognizes that there may be a risk but
    believes that the risk is not as great as some fear that it is.
    Numerous states require the prosecutor to provide the defendant
    with a list of prosecution witnesses prior to trial. [These States
    include Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Florida,
    Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan,
    Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, Oklahoma, Oregon,
    Tennessee, and Utah. See Advisory Committee Note, House Document 93-
    292, at 60.] The evidence before the Committee indicates that
    these states have not experienced unusual problems of witness
    intimidation. [See the comments of the Standing Committee on
    Criminal Law and Procedure of the State Bar of California in
    Hearings II, at 302.]
      Some federal jurisdictions have adopted an omnibus pretrial
    discovery procedure that calls upon the prosecutor to give the
    defendant its witness lists. One such jurisdiction is the Southern
    District of California. The evidence before the Committee indicates
    that there has been no unusual problems with witness intimidation
    in that district. Charles Sevilla, Chief Trial Attorney for the
    Federal Defenders of San Diego, Inc., which operates in the
    Southern District of California, testified as follows:
          The Government in one of its statements to this committee
        indicated that providing the defense with witness lists will
        cause coerced witness perjury. This does not happen. We receive
        Government witness lists as a matter of course in the Southern
        District, and it's a rare occasion when there is any overture
        by a defense witness or by a defendant to a Government witness.
        It simply doesn't happen except on the rarest of occasion. When
        the Government has that fear it can resort to the protective
        order. [Hearings II, at 42.]
      Mr. Sevilla's observations are corroborated by the views of the
    U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California:
          Concerning the modifications to Rule 16, we have followed
        these procedures informally in this district for a number of
        years. We were one of the districts selected for the pilot
        projects of the Omnibus Hearing in 1967 or 1968. We have found
        that the courts in our district will not require us to disclose
        names of proposed witnesses when in our judgment to do so would
        not be advisable. Otherwise we routinely provide defense
        counsel with full discovery, including names and addresses of
        witnesses. We have not had any untoward results by following
        this program, having in mind that the courts will, and have,
        excused us from discovery where the circumstances warrant.
        [Hearings I, at 109.]
      Much of the prosecutorial criticism of requiring the prosecution
    to give a list of its witnesses to the defendant reflects an
    unwillingness to trust judges to exercise sound judgment in the
    public interest. Prosecutors have stated that they frequently will
    open their files to defendants in order to induce pleas. [See
    testimony of Richard L. Thornburgh, United States Attorney for the
    Western District of Pennsylvania, in Hearings I, at 150.]
      Prosecutors are willing to determine on their own when they can
    do this without jeopardizing the safety of witnesses. There is no
    reason why a judicial officer cannot exercise the same discretion
    in the public interest.
      The Committee is convinced that in the usual case there is no
    serious risk of danger to prosecution witnesses from pretrial
    disclosure of their identities. In exceptional instances, there may
    be a risk of danger. The Committee rule, however, is capable of
    dealing with those exceptional instances while still providing for
    disclosure of witnesses in the usual case.
      The Committee recognizes the force of the constitutional
    arguments advanced by defenders. Requiring a defendant, upon
    request, to give to the prosecution material which may be
    incriminating, certainly raises very serious constitutional
    problems. The Committee deals with these problems by having the
    defendant trigger the discovery procedures. Since the defendant has
    no constitutional right to discover any of the prosecution's
    evidence (unless it is exculpatory within the meaning of Brady v.
    Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963)), it is permissible to condition his
    access to nonexculpatory evidence upon his turning over a list of
    defense witnesses. Rule 16 currently operates in this manner.
      The Committee also changed subdivisions (a)(2) and (b)(2), which
    set forth "work product" exceptions to the general discovery
    requirements. The subsections proposed by the Supreme Court are
    cast in terms of the type of document involved (e. g., report),
    rather than in terms of the content (e. g., legal theory). The
    Committee recast these provisions by adopting language from Rule
    26(b)(3) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
      The Committee notes that subdivision (a)(1)(C) permits the
    defendant to discover certain items that "were obtained from or
    belong to the defendant." The Committee believes that, as indicated
    in the Advisory Committee Note [House Document 93-292, at 59],
    items that "were obtained from or belong to the defendant" are
    items that are material to the preparation of his defense.
      The Committee added language to subdivision (a)(1)(B) to conform
    it to provisions in subdivision (a)(1)(A). The rule as changed by
    the Committee requires the prosecutor to give the defendant such
    copy of the defendant's prior criminal record as is within the
    prosecutor's "possession, custody, or control, the existence of
    which is known, or by the exercise of due diligence may become
    known" to the prosecutor. The Committee also made a similar
    conforming change in subdivision (a)(1)(E), dealing with the
    criminal records of government witnesses. The prosecutor can
    ordinarily discharge his obligation under these two subdivisions,
    (a)(1)(B) and (E), by obtaining a copy of the F.B.I. "rap sheet."
      The Committee made an additional change in subdivision (a)(1)(E).
    The proposed rule required the prosecutor to provide the defendant
    with a record of the felony convictions of government witnesses.
    The major purpose for letting the defendant discover information
    about the record of government witnesses, is to provide him with
    information concerning the credibility of those witnesses. Rule
    609(a) of the Federal Rules of Evidence permits a party to attack
    the credibility of a witness with convictions other than just
    felony convictions. The Committee, therefore, changed subdivision
    (a)(1)(E) to require the prosecutor to turn over a record of all
    criminal convictions, not just felony convictions.
      The Committee changed subdivision (d)(1), which deals with
    protective orders. Proposed (d)(1) required the court to conduct an
    ex parte proceeding whenever a party so requested. The Committee
    changed the mandatory language to permissive language. A Court may,
    not must, conduct an ex parte proceeding if a party so requests.
    Thus, if a party requests a protective or modifying order and asks
    to make its showing ex parte, the court has two separate
    determinations to make. First, it must determine whether an ex
    parte proceeding is appropriate, bearing in mind that ex parte
    proceedings are disfavored and not to be encouraged. [An ex parte
    proceeding would seem to be appropriate if any adversary proceeding
    would defeat the purpose of the protective or modifying order. For
    example, the identity of a witness would be disclosed and the
    purpose of the protective order is to conceal that witness'
    identity.] Second, it must determine whether a protective or
    modifying order shall issue.

    CONFERENCE COMMITTEE NOTES, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-414; 1975 AMENDMENT
      Rule 16 deals with pretrial discovery by the defendant and the
    government. The House and Senate versions of the bill differ on
    Rule 16 in several respects.
      A. Reciprocal vs. Independent Discovery for the Government. - The
    House version of the bill provides that the government's discovery
    is reciprocal. If the defendant requires and receives certain items
    from the government, then the government is entitled to get similar
    items from the defendant. The Senate version of the bill gives the
    government an independent right to discover material in the
    possession of the defendant.
      The Conference adopts the House provisions.
      B. Rule 16(a)(1)(A). - The House version permits an organization
    to discover relevant recorded grand jury testimony of any witness
    who was, at the time of the acts charged or of the grand jury
    proceedings, so situated as an officer or employee as to have been
    able legally to bind it in respect to the activities involved in
    the charges. The Senate version limits discovery of this material
    to testimony of a witness who was, at the time of the grand jury
    proceeding, so situated as an officer or employee as to have been
    legally to bind the defendant in respect to the activities involved
    in the charges.
      The Conferees share a concern that during investigations, ex-
    employees and ex-officers of potential corporate defendants are a
    critical source of information regarding activities of their former
    corporate employers. It is not unusual that, at the time of their
    testimony or interview, these persons may have interests which are
    substantially adverse to or divergent from the putative corporate
    defendant. It is also not unusual that such individuals, though no
    longer sharing a community of interest with the corporation, may
    nevertheless be subject to pressure from their former employers.
    Such pressure may derive from the fact that the ex-employees or ex-
    officers have remained in the same industry or related industry,
    are employed by competitors, suppliers, or customers of their
    former employers, or have pension or other deferred compensation
    arrangements with former employers.
      The Conferees also recognize that considerations of fairness
    require that a defendant corporation or other legal entity be
    entitled to the grand jury testimony of a former officer or
    employee if that person was personally involved in the conduct
    constituting the offense and was able legally to bind the defendant
    in respect to the conduct in which he was involved.
      The Conferees decided that, on balance, a defendant organization
    should not be entitled to the relevant grand jury testimony of a
    former officer or employee in every instance. However, a defendant
    organization should be entitled to it if the former officer or
    employee was personally involved in the alleged conduct
    constituting the offense and was so situated as to have been able
    legally to bind the defendant in respect to the alleged conduct.
    The Conferees note that, even in those situations where the rule
    provides for disclosure of the testimony, the Government may, upon
    a sufficient showing, obtain a protective or modifying order
    pursuant to Rule 16(d)(1).
      The Conference adopts a provision that permits a defendant
    organization to discover relevant grant jury testimony of a witness
    who (1) was, at the time of his testimony, so situated as an
    officer or employee as to have been able legally to bind the
    defendant in respect to conduct constituting the offense, or (2)
    was, at the time of the offense, personally involved in the alleged
    conduct constituting the offense and so situated as an officer or
    employee as to have been able legally to bind the defendant in
    respect to that alleged conduct in which he was involved.
      C. Rules 16(a)(1)(E) and (b)(1)(C) (witness lists). - The House
    version of the bill provides that each party, the government and
    the defendant, may discover the names and addresses of the other
    party's witnesses 3 days before trial. The Senate version of the
    bill eliminates these provisions, thereby making the names and
    addresses of a party's witnesses nondiscoverable. The Senate
    version also makes a conforming change in Rule 16(d)(1). The
    Conference adopts the Senate version.
      A majority of the Conferees believe it is not in the interest of
    the effective administration of criminal justice to require that
    the government or the defendant be forced to reveal the names and
    addresses of its witnesses before trial. Discouragement of
    witnesses and improper contact directed at influencing their
    testimony, were deemed paramount concerns in the formulation of
    this policy.
      D. Rules 16(a)(2) and (b)(2). - Rules 16(a)(2) and (b)(2) define
    certain types of materials ("work product") not to be discoverable.
    The House version defines work product to be "the mental
    impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal theories of the
    attorney for the government or other government agents." This is
    parallel to the definition in the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
    The Senate version returns to the Supreme Court's language and
    defines work product to be "reports, memoranda, or other internal
    government documents." This is the language of the present rule.
      The Conference adopts the Senate provision.
      The Conferees note that a party may not avoid a legitimate
    discovery request merely because something is labelled "report",
    "memorandum", or "internal document". For example if a document
    qualifies as a statement of the defendant within the meaning of the
    Rule 16(a)(1)(A), then the labelling of that document as "report",
    "memorandum", or "internal government document" will not shield
    that statement from discovery. Likewise, if the results of an
    experiment qualify as the results of a scientific test within the
    meaning of Rule 16(b)(1)(B), then the results of that experiment
    are not shielded from discovery even if they are labelled "report",
    "memorandum", or "internal defense document".

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (a)(3). The added language is made necessary
    by the addition of Rule 26.2 and new subdivision (i) of Rule 12,
    which contemplate the production of statements, including those
    made to a grand jury, under specified circumstances.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to Rule 16(a)(1)(A) expands slightly government
    disclosure to the defense of statements made by the defendant. The
    rule now requires the prosecution, upon request, to disclose any
    written record which contains reference to a relevant oral
    statement by the defendant which was in response to interrogation,
    without regard to whether the prosecution intends to use the
    statement at trial. The change recognizes that the defendant has
    some proprietary interest in statements made during interrogation
    regardless of the prosecution's intent to make any use of the
    statements.
      The written record need not be a transcription or summary of the
    defendant's statement but must only be some written reference which
    would provide some means for the prosecution and defense to
    identify the statement. Otherwise, the prosecution would have the
    difficult task of locating and disclosing the myriad oral
    statements made by a defendant, even if it had no intention of
    using the statements at trial. In a lengthy and complicated
    investigation with multiple interrogations by different government
    agents, that task could become unduly burdensome.
      The existing requirement to disclose oral statements which the
    prosecution intends to introduce at trial has also been changed
    slightly. Under the amendment, the prosecution must also disclose
    any relevant oral statement which it intends to use at trial,
    without regard to whether it intends to introduce the statement.
    Thus, an oral statement by the defendant which would only be used
    for impeachment purposes would be covered by the rule.
      The introductory language to the rule has been modified to
    clarify that without regard to whether the defendant's statement is
    oral or written, it must at a minimum be disclosed. Although the
    rule does not specify the means for disclosing the defendant's
    statements, if they are in written or recorded form, the defendant
    is entitled to inspect, copy, or photograph them.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      New subdivisions (a)(1)(E) and (b)(1)(C) expand federal criminal
    discovery by requiring disclosure of the intent to rely on expert
    opinion testimony, what the testimony will consist of, and the
    bases of the testimony. The amendment is intended to minimize
    surprise that often results from unexpected expert testimony,
    reduce the need for continuances, and to provide the opponent with
    a fair opportunity to test the merit of the expert's testimony
    through focused cross-examination. See Eads, Adjudication by
    Ambush: Federal Prosecutors' Use of Nonscientific Experts in a
    System of Limited Criminal Discovery, 67 N. C. L. Rev. 577, 622
    (1989).
      Like other provisions in Rule 16, subdivision (a)(1)(E) requires
    the government to disclose information regarding its expert
    witnesses if the defendant first requests the information. Once the
    requested information is provided, the government is entitled,
    under (b)(1)(C) to reciprocal discovery of the same information
    from the defendant. The disclosure is in the form of a written
    summary and only applies to expert witnesses that each side intends
    to call. Although no specific timing requirements are included, it
    is expected that the parties will make their requests and
    disclosures in a timely fashion.
      With increased use of both scientific and nonscientific expert
    testimony, one of counsel's most basic discovery needs is to learn
    that an expert is expected to testify. See Gianelli, Criminal
    Discovery, Scientific Evidence, and DNA, 44 Vand. L. Rev. 793
    (1991); Symposium on Science and the Rules of Legal Procedure, 101
    F.R.D. 599 (1983). This is particularly important if the expert is
    expected to testify on matters which touch on new or controversial
    techniques or opinions. The amendment is intended to meet this need
    by first, requiring notice of the expert's qualifications which in
    turn will permit the requesting party to determine whether in fact
    the witness is an expert within the definition of Federal Rule of
    Evidence 702. Like Rule 702, which generally provides a broad
    definition of who qualifies as an "expert," the amendment is broad
    in that it includes both scientific and nonscientific experts. It
    does not distinguish between those cases where the expert will be
    presenting testimony on novel scientific evidence. The rule does
    not extend, however, to witnesses who may offer only lay opinion
    testimony under Federal Rule of Evidence 701. Nor does the
    amendment extend to summary witnesses who may testify under Federal
    Rule of Evidence 1006 unless the witness is called to offer expert
    opinions apart from, or in addition to, the summary evidence.
      Second, the requesting party is entitled to a summary of the
    expected testimony. This provision is intended to permit more
    complete pretrial preparation by the requesting party. For example,
    this should inform the requesting party whether the expert will be
    providing only background information on a particular issue or
    whether the witness will actually offer an opinion. In some
    instances, a generic description of the likely witness and that
    witness's qualifications may be sufficient, e.g., where a DEA
    laboratory chemist will testify, but it is not clear which
    particular chemist will be available.
      Third, and perhaps most important, the requesting party is to be
    provided with a summary of the bases of the expert's opinion. Rule
    16(a)(1)(D) covers disclosure and access to any results or reports
    of mental or physical examinations and scientific testing. But the
    fact that no formal written reports have been made does not
    necessarily mean that an expert will not testify at trial. At least
    one federal court has concluded that that provision did not
    otherwise require the government to disclose the identify of its
    expert witnesses where no reports had been prepared. See, e.g.,
    United States v. Johnson, 713 F.2d 654 (11th Cir. 1983, cert.
    denied, 484 U.S. 956 (1984) (there is no right to witness list and
    Rule 16 was not implicated because no reports were made in the
    case). The amendment should remedy that problem. Without regard to
    whether a party would be entitled to the underlying bases for
    expert testimony under other provisions of Rule 16, the amendment
    requires a summary of the bases relied upon by the expert. That
    should cover not only written and oral reports, tests, reports, and
    investigations, but any information that might be recognized as a
    legitimate basis for an opinion under Federal Rule of Evidence 703,
    including opinions of other experts.
      The amendments are not intended to create unreasonable procedural
    hurdles. As with other discovery requests under Rule 16,
    subdivision (d) is available to either side to seek ex parte a
    protective or modifying order concerning requests for information
    under (a)(1)(E) or (b)(1)(C).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1994 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is intended to clarify that the discovery and
    disclosure requirements of the rule apply equally to individual and
    organizational defendants. See In re United States, 918 F.2d 138
    (11th Cir. 1990) (rejecting distinction between individual and
    organizational defendants). Because an organizational defendant may
    not know what its officers or agents have said or done in regard to
    a charged offense, it is important that it have access to
    statements made by persons whose statements or actions could be
    binding on the defendant. See also United States v. Hughes, 413
    F.2d 1244, 1251-52 (5th Cir. 1969), vacated as moot, 397 U.S. 93
    (1970) (prosecution of corporations "often resembles the most
    complex civil cases, necessitating a vigorous probing of the mass
    of detailed facts to seek out the truth").
      The amendment defines defendant in a broad, nonexclusive fashion.
    See also 18 U.S.C. Sec. 18 (the term "organization" includes a
    person other than an individual). And the amendment recognizes that
    an organizational defendant could be bound by an agent's statement,
    see, e.g., Federal Rule of Evidence 801(d)(2), or be vicariously
    liable for an agent's actions. The amendment contemplates that,
    upon request of the defendant, the Government will disclose any
    statements within the purview of the rule and made by persons whom
    the government contends to be among the classes of persons
    described in the rule. There is no requirement that the defense
    stipulate or admit that such persons were in a position to bind the
    defendant.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1997 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a)(1)(E). Under Rule 16(a)(1)(E), as amended in
    1993, the defense is entitled to disclosure of certain information
    about expert witnesses which the government intends to call during
    the trial. And if the government provides that information, it is
    entitled to reciprocal discovery under (b)(1)(C). This amendment is
    a parallel reciprocal disclosure provision which is triggered by a
    government request for information concerning defense expert
    witnesses as to the defendant's mental condition, which is provided
    for in an amendment to (b)(1)(C), infra.
      Subdivision (b)(1)(C). Amendments in 1993 to Rule 16 included
    provisions for pretrial disclosure of information, including names
    and expected testimony of both defense and government expert
    witnesses. Those disclosures are triggered by defense requests for
    the information. If the defense makes such requests and the
    government complies, the government is entitled to similar,
    reciprocal discovery. The amendment to Rule 16(b)(1)(C) provides
    that if the defendant has notified the government under Rule 12.2
    of an intent to rely on expert testimony to show the defendant's
    mental condition, the government may request the defense to
    disclose information about its expert witnesses. Although Rule 12.2
    insures that the government will not be surprised by the nature of
    the defense or that the defense intends to call an expert witness,
    that rule makes no provision for discovery of the identity, the
    expected testimony, or the qualifications of the expert witness.
    The amendment provides the government with the limited right to
    respond to the notice provided under Rule 12.2 by requesting more
    specific information about the expert. If the government requests
    the specified information, and the defense complies, the defense is
    entitled to reciprocal discovery under an amendment to subdivision
    (a)(1)(E), supra.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 16 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Current Rule 16(a)(1)(A) is now located in Rule 16(a)(1)(A), (B),
    and (C). Current Rule 16(a)(1)(B), (C), (D), and (E) have been
    relettered.
      Amended Rule 16(b)(1)(B) includes a change that may be
    substantive in nature. Rule 16(a)(1)(E) and 16(a)(1)(F) require
    production of specified information if the government intends to
    "use" the information "in its case-in-chief at trial." The
    Committee believed that the language in revised Rule 16(b)(1)(B),
    which deals with a defendant's disclosure of information to the
    government, should track the similar language in revised Rule
    16(a)(1). In Rule 16(b)(1)(B)(ii), the Committee changed the
    current provision which reads: "the defendant intends to introduce
    as evidence" to the "defendant intends to use the item . . ." The
    Committee recognized that this might constitute a substantive
    change in the rule but believed that it was a necessary conforming
    change with the provisions in Rule 16(a)(1)(E) and (F), noted
    supra, regarding use of evidence by the government.
      In amended Rule 16(d)(1), the last phrase in the current
    subdivision - which refers to a possible appeal of the court's
    discovery order - has been deleted. In the Committee's view, no
    substantive change results from that deletion. The language is
    unnecessary because the court, regardless of whether there is an
    appeal, will have maintained the record.
      Finally, current Rule 16(e), which addresses the topic of notice
    of alibi witnesses, has been deleted as being unnecessarily
    duplicative of Rule 12.1.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Evidence, referred to in subds. (a)(1)(G)
    and (b)(1)(C), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary
    and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      2002 - Subd. (a)(1)(G). Pub. L. 107-273, Sec. 11019(b)(1),
    amended subpar. (G) generally.
      Subd. (b)(1)(C). Pub. L. 107-273, Sec. 11019(b)(2), amended
    subpar. (C) generally.
      1975 - Subd. (a)(1). Pub. L. 94-64 amended subpars. (A), (B), and
    (D) generally, and struck out subpar. (E).
      Subd. (a)(4). Pub. L. 94-149 struck out par. (4) "Failure to Call
    Witness. The fact that a witness' name is on a list furnished under
    this rule shall not be grounds for comment upon a failure to call
    the witness."
      Subd. (b)(1). Pub. L. 94-64 amended subpars. (A) and (B)
    generally, and struck out subpar. (C).
      Subd. (b)(3). Pub. L. 94-149 struck out par. (3) "Failure to Call
    Witness. The fact that a witness' name is on a list furnished under
    this rule shall not be grounds for a comment upon a failure to call
    a witness."
      Subd. (c). Pub. L. 94-64 amended subd. (c) generally.
      Subd. (d)(1). Pub. L. 94-64 amended par. (1) generally.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2002 AMENDMENT                 
      Pub. L. 107-273, div. C, title I, Sec. 11019(c), Nov. 2, 2002,
    116 Stat. 1826, provided that: "The amendments made by subsection
    (b) [amending this rule] shall take effect on December 1, 2002."

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 17                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 17. Subpoena

-STATUTE-
      (a) Content. A subpoena must state the court's name and the title
    of the proceeding, include the seal of the court, and command the
    witness to attend and testify at the time and place the subpoena
    specifies. The clerk must issue a blank subpoena - signed and
    sealed - to the party requesting it, and that party must fill in
    the blanks before the subpoena is served.
      (b) Defendant Unable to Pay. Upon a defendant's ex parte
    application, the court must order that a subpoena be issued for a
    named witness if the defendant shows an inability to pay the
    witness's fees and the necessity of the witness's presence for an
    adequate defense. If the court orders a subpoena to be issued, the
    process costs and witness fees will be paid in the same manner as
    those paid for witnesses the government subpoenas.
      (c) Producing Documents and Objects.
        (1) In General. A subpoena may order the witness to produce any
      books, papers, documents, data, or other objects the subpoena
      designates. The court may direct the witness to produce the
      designated items in court before trial or before they are to be
      offered in evidence. When the items arrive, the court may permit
      the parties and their attorneys to inspect all or part of them.
        (2) Quashing or Modifying the Subpoena. On motion made
      promptly, the court may quash or modify the subpoena if
      compliance would be unreasonable or oppressive.
        (3) Subpoena for Personal or Confidential Information About a
      Victim. After a complaint, indictment, or information is filed, a
      subpoena requiring the production of personal or confidential
      information about a victim may be served on a third party only by
      court order. Before entering the order and unless there are
      exceptional circumstances, the court must require giving notice
      to the victim so that the victim can move to quash or modify the
      subpoena or otherwise object.

      (d) Service. A marshal, a deputy marshal, or any nonparty who is
    at least 18 years old may serve a subpoena. The server must deliver
    a copy of the subpoena to the witness and must tender to the
    witness one day's witness-attendance fee and the legal mileage
    allowance. The server need not tender the attendance fee or mileage
    allowance when the United States, a federal officer, or a federal
    agency has requested the subpoena.
      (e) Place of Service.
        (1) In the United States. A subpoena requiring a witness to
      attend a hearing or trial may be served at any place within the
      United States.
        (2) In a Foreign Country. If the witness is in a foreign
      country, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1783 governs the subpoena's service.

      (f) Issuing a Deposition Subpoena.
        (1) Issuance. A court order to take a deposition authorizes the
      clerk in the district where the deposition is to be taken to
      issue a subpoena for any witness named or described in the order.
        (2) Place. After considering the convenience of the witness and
      the parties, the court may order - and the subpoena may require -
      the witness to appear anywhere the court designates.

      (g) Contempt. The court (other than a magistrate judge) may hold
    in contempt a witness who, without adequate excuse, disobeys a
    subpoena issued by a federal court in that district. A magistrate
    judge may hold in contempt a witness who, without adequate excuse,
    disobeys a subpoena issued by that magistrate judge as provided in
    28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(e).
      (h) Information Not Subject to a Subpoena. No party may subpoena
    a statement of a witness or of a prospective witness under this
    rule. Rule 26.2 governs the production of the statement.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Feb. 28, 1966, eff.
    July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 22, 1974, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 3(29), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat.
    375; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Dec. 1, 1980; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1,
    1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1,
    2002; Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 45(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule preserves the existing right
    of an indigent defendant to secure attendance of witnesses at the
    expense of the Government, 28 U.S.C. [former] 656 (Witnesses for
    indigent defendants). Under existing law, however, the right is
    limited to witnesses who are within the district in which the court
    is held or within one hundred miles of the place of trial. No
    procedure now exists whereby an indigent defendant can procure at
    Government expense the attendance of witnesses found in another
    district and more than 100 miles of the place of trial. This
    limitation is abrogated by the rule so that an indigent defendant
    will be able to secure the attendance of witnesses at the expense
    of the Government no matter where they are located. The showing
    required by the rule to justify such relief is the same as that now
    exacted by 28 U.S.C. [former] 656.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 45(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 45(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix]. The provision permitting persons other than the marshal
    to serve the subpoena, and requiring the payment of witness fees in
    Government cases is new matter.
      Note to Subdivision (e)(1). This rule continues existing law, 28
    U.S.C. [former] 654 (Witnesses; subpoenas; may run into another
    district). The rule is different in civil cases in that in such
    cases, unless a statute otherwise provides, a subpoena may be
    served only within the district or within 100 miles of the place of
    trial, 28 U.S.C. [former] 654; Rule 45(e)(1) of the Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (e)(2). This rule is substantially the same
    as Rule 45(e)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28
    U.S.C., Appendix]. See Blackmer v. United States, 284 U.S. 421,
    upholding the validity of the statute referred to in the rule.
      Note to Subdivision (f). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 45(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C,
    Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (g). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 45(f) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C,
    Appendix].

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1948 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is to substitute proper reference to Title 28 in
    place of the repealed act.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (b). - Criticism has been directed at the requirement
    that an indigent defendant disclose in advance the theory of his
    defense in order to obtain the issuance of a subpoena at government
    expense while the government and defendants able to pay may have
    subpoenas issued in blank without any disclosure. See Report of the
    Attorney General's Committee on Poverty and the Administration of
    Criminal Justice (1963) p. 27. The Attorney General's Committee
    also urged that the standard of financial inability to pay be
    substituted for that of indigency. Id. at 40-41. In one case it was
    held that the affidavit filed by an indigent defendant under this
    subdivision could be used by the government at his trial for
    purposes of impeachment. Smith v. United States, 312 F.2d 867
    (D.C.Cir. 1962). There has also been doubt as to whether the
    defendant need make a showing beyond the face of his affidavit in
    order to secure issuance of a subpoena. Greenwell v. United States,
    317 F.2d 108 (D.C.Cir. 1963).
      The amendment makes several changes. The references to a judge
    are deleted since applications should be made to the court. An ex
    parte application followed by a satisfactory showing is substituted
    for the requirement of a request or motion supported by affidavit.
    The court is required to order the issuance of a subpoena upon
    finding that the defendant is unable to pay the witness fees and
    that the presence of the witness is necessary to an adequate
    defense.
      Subdivision (d). - The subdivision is revised to bring it into
    conformity with 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1825.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivisions (a) and (g) are amended to reflect the existence of
    the "United States magistrate," a phrase defined in rule 54.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (f)(2) is amended to provide that the court has
    discretion over the place at which the deposition is to be taken.
    Similar authority is conferred by Civil Rule 45(d)(2). See C.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 278 (1969).
      Ordinarily the deposition should be taken at the place most
    convenient for the witness but, under certain circumstances, the
    parties may prefer to arrange for the presence of the witness at a
    place more convenient to counsel.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 17 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with subpoenas.
    Subdivision (f)(2) as proposed by the Supreme Court provides:
          The witness whose deposition is to be taken may be required
        by subpoena to attend at any place designated by the trial
        court.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee added language to the proposed
    amendment that directs the court to consider the convenience of the
    witness and the parties when compelling a witness to attend where a
    deposition will be taken.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (h). This addition to rule 17 is necessary in
    light of proposed rule 26.2, which deals with the obtaining of
    statements of government and defense witnesses.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 17 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      A potential substantive change has been made in Rule 17(c)(1);
    the word "data" has been added to the list of matters that may be
    subpoenaed. The Committee believed that inserting that term will
    reflect the fact that in an increasingly technological culture, the
    information may exist in a format not already covered by the more
    conventional list, such as a book or document.
      Rule 17(g) has been amended to recognize the contempt powers of a
    court (other than a magistrate judge) and a magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (c)(3). This amendment implements the Crime Victims'
    Rights Act, codified at 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(a)(8), which states
    that victims have a right to respect for their "dignity and
    privacy." The rule provides a protective mechanism when the defense
    subpoenas a third party to provide personal or confidential
    information about a victim. Third party subpoenas raise special
    concerns because a third party may not assert the victim's
    interests, and the victim may be unaware of the subpoena.
    Accordingly, the amendment requires judicial approval before
    service of a subpoena seeking personal or confidential information
    about a victim from a third party. The phrase "personal or
    confidential information," which may include such things as medical
    or school records, is left to case development.
      The amendment provides a mechanism for notifying the victim, and
    makes it clear that a victim may move to quash or modify the
    subpoena under Rule 17(c)(2) - or object by other means such as a
    letter - on the grounds that it is unreasonable or oppressive. The
    rule recognizes, however, that there may be exceptional
    circumstances in which this procedure may not be appropriate. Such
    exceptional circumstances would include, evidence that might be
    lost or destroyed if the subpoena were delayed or a situation where
    the defense would be unfairly prejudiced by premature disclosure of
    a sensitive defense strategy. The Committee leaves to the judgment
    of the court a determination as to whether the judge will permit
    the question whether such exceptional circumstances exist to be
    decided ex parte and authorize service of the third-party subpoena
    without notice to anyone.
      The amendment applies only to subpoenas served after a complaint,
    indictment, or information has been filed. It has no application to
    grand jury subpoenas. When the grand jury seeks the production of
    personal or confidential information, grand jury secrecy affords
    substantial protection for the victim's privacy and dignity
    interests.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The proposed amendment omits the language providing for ex parte
    issuance of a court order authorizing a subpoena to a third party
    for private or confidential information about a victim. The last
    sentence of the amendment was revised to provide that unless there
    are exceptional circumstances the court must give the victim notice
    before a subpoena seeking the victim's personal or confidential
    information can be served upon a third party. It was also revised
    to add the language "or otherwise object" to make it clear that the
    victim's objection might be lodged by means other than a motion,
    such as a letter to the court.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Subd. (f)(2). Pub. L. 94-64 amended par. (2) generally.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1979 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by addition of subd. (h) by order of the
    United States Supreme Court of Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1,
    1980, see section 1(1) of Pub. L. 96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat.
    326, set out as a note under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary
    and Judicial Procedure.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

                                SUPERSEDURE                            
      Provision of subd. (d) of this rule that witness shall be
    tendered the fee for 1 day's attendance and mileage allowed by law
    as superseded by section 1825 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure, see such section and Reviser's Note thereunder.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 17.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IV. ARRAIGNMENT AND PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 17.1. Pretrial Conference

-STATUTE-
      On its own, or on a party's motion, the court may hold one or
    more pretrial conferences to promote a fair and expeditious trial.
    When a conference ends, the court must prepare and file a
    memorandum of any matters agreed to during the conference. The
    government may not use any statement made during the conference by
    the defendant or the defendant's attorney unless it is in writing
    and is signed by the defendant and the defendant's attorney.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966            
      This new rule establishes a basis for pretrial conferences with
    counsel for the parties in criminal cases within the discretion of
    the court. Pretrial conferences are now being utilized to some
    extent even in the absence of a rule. See, generally, Brewster,
    Criminal Pre-Trials - Useful Techniques, 29 F.R.D. 442 (1962);
    Estes, Pre-Trial Conferences in Criminal Cases, 23 F.R.D. 560
    (1959); Kaufman, Pre-Trial in Criminal Cases, 23 F.R.D. 551 (1959);
    Kaufman, Pre-Trial in Criminal Cases, 42 J.Am.Jud.Soc. 150 (1959);
    Kaufman, The Appalachian Trial: Further Observations on Pre-Trial
    in Criminal Cases, 44 J.Am.Jud.Soc. 53 (1960); West, Criminal Pre-
    Trials - Useful Techniques, 29 F.R.D. 436 (1962); Handbook of
    Recommended Procedures for the Trial of Protracted Cases, 25 F.R.D.
    399-403, 468-470 (1960). Cf. Mo.Sup.Ct. Rule 25.09; Rules Governing
    the N.J. Courts, Sec. 3:5-3.
      The rule is cast in broad language so as to accommodate all types
    of pretrial conferences. As the third sentence suggests, in some
    cases it may be desirable or necessary to have the defendant
    present. See Committee on Pretrial Procedure of the Judicial
    Conference of the United States, Recommended Procedures in Criminal
    Pretrials, 37 F.R.D. 95 (1965).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                     COMMITTEE NOTES - 2002 AMENDMENT                 
      The language of Rule 17.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Current Rule 17.1 prohibits the court from holding a pretrial
    conference where the defendant is not represented by counsel. It is
    unclear whether this would bar such a conference when the defendant
    invokes the constitutional right to self-representation. See
    Faretta v. California, 422 U.S. 806 (1975). The amended version
    makes clear that a pretrial conference may be held in these
    circumstances. Moreover, the Committee believed that pretrial
    conferences might be particularly useful in those cases where the
    defendant is proceeding pro se.

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE V. VENUE                              01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
                              TITLE V. VENUE                          

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 18                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
    Rule 18. Place of Prosecution and Trial

-STATUTE-
      Unless a statute or these rules permit otherwise, the government
    must prosecute an offense in a district where the offense was
    committed. The court must set the place of trial within the
    district with due regard for the convenience of the defendant, any
    victim, and the witnesses, and the prompt administration of
    justice.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 30, 1979, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1979; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 23, 2008, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2008.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. The Constitution of the United States, Article III. Section 2,
    Paragraph 3, provides:

      The Trial of all Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be
    by Jury; and such Trial shall be held in the State where the said
    Crimes shall have been committed; but when not committed within any
    State, the Trial shall be at such Place or Places as the Congress
    may by Law have directed.

    Amendment VI provides:

      In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
    to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and
    district wherein the crime shall have been committed, which
    district shall have been previously ascertained by law * * *

    28 U.S.C. former Sec. 114 (now Secs. 1393, 1441) provides:

      All prosecutions for crimes or offenses shall be had within the
    division of such districts where the same were committed, unless
    the court, or the judge thereof, upon the application of the
    defendant, shall order the cause to be transferred for prosecution
    to another division of the district.

    The word "prosecutions," as used in this statute, does not include
    the finding and return of an indictment. The prevailing practice of
    impaneling a grand jury for the entire district at a session in
    some division and of distributing the indictments among the
    divisions in which the offenses were committed is deemed proper and
    legal, Salinger v. Loisel, 265 U.S. 224, 237. The court stated that
    this practice is "attended with real advantages." The rule is a
    restatement of existing law and is intended to sanction the
    continuance of this practice. For this reason, the rule requires
    that only the trial be held in the division in which the offense
    was committed and permits other proceedings to be had elsewhere in
    the same district.
      2. Within the framework of the foregoing constitutional
    provisions and the provisions of the general statute, 28 U.S.C. 114
    [now 1393, 1441], supra, numerous statutes have been enacted to
    regulate the venue of criminal proceedings, particularly in respect
    to continuing offenses and offenses consisting of several
    transactions occurring in different districts. Armour Packing Co.
    v. United States, 209 U.S. 56, 73-77; United States v. Johnson, 323
    U.S. 273. These special venue provisions are not affected by the
    rule. Among these statutes are the following:

    U.S.C., Title 8:

     Section 138 [see 1326, 1328, 1329] (Importation of aliens for
          immoral purposes; attempt to reenter after deportation;
          penalty)

    U.S.C., Title 15:

     Section 78aa (Regulation of Securities Exchanges; jurisdiction of
          offenses and suits)
     Section 79y (Control of Public Utility Holding Companies;
          jurisdiction of offenses and suits)
     Section 80a-43 (Investment Companies; jurisdiction of offenses and
          suits)
     Section 80b-14 (Investment Advisers; jurisdiction of offenses and
          suits)
     Section 298 (Falsely Stamped Gold or Silver, etc., violations of
          law; penalty; jurisdiction of prosecutions)
     Section 715i (Interstate Transportation of Petroleum Products;
          restraining violations; civil and criminal proceedings;
          jurisdiction of District Courts; review)
     Section 717u (Natural Gas Act; jurisdiction of offenses;
          enforcement of liabilities and duties)

    U.S.C., Title 18:

     Section 39 [now 5, 3241] (Enforcement of neutrality; United States
          defined; jurisdiction of offenses; prior offenses; partial
          invalidity of provisions)
     Section 336 [now 1302] (Lottery, or gift enterprise circulars not
          mailable; place of trial)
     Section 338a [now 876, 3239] (Mailing threatening communications)
     Section 338b [now 877, 3239] (Same; mailing in foreign country for
          delivery in the United States)
     Section 345 [now 1717] (Using or attempting to use mails for
          transmission of matter declared nonmailable by title;
          jurisdiction of offense)
     Section 396e [now 1762] (Transportation or importation of convict-
          made goods with intent to use in violation of local law;
          jurisdiction of violations)
     Section 401 [now 2421] (White slave traffic; jurisdiction of
          prosecutions)
     Section 408 [now 10, 2311 to 2313] (Motor vehicles;
          transportation, etc., of stolen vehicles)
     Section 408d [now 875, 3239] (Threatening communications in
          interstate commerce)
     Section 408e [now 1073] (Moving in interstate or foreign commerce
          to avoid prosecution for felony or giving testimony)
     Section 409 [now 659, 660, 2117] (Larceny, etc., of goods in
          interstate or foreign commerce; penalty)
     Section 412 [now 660] (Embezzlement, etc., by officers of carrier;
          jurisdiction; double jeopardy)
     Section 418 [now 3237] (National Stolen Property Act;
          jurisdiction)
     Section 419d [now 3237] (Transportation of stolen cattle in
          interstate or foreign commerce; jurisdiction of offense)
     Section 420d [now 1951] (Interference with trade and commerce by
          violence, threats, etc., jurisdiction of offenses)
     Section 494 [now 1654] (Arming vessel to cruise against citizen;
          trials)
     Section 553 [now 3236] (Place of committal of murder or
          manslaughter determined)

    U.S.C., Title 21:

     Section 17 (Introduction into, or sale in, State or Territory or
          District of Columbia of dairy or food products falsely
          labeled or branded; penalty; jurisdiction of prosecutions)
     Section 118 (Prevention of introduction and spread of contagion;
          duty of district attorneys)

    U.S.C., Title 28:

     Section 101 [now 18 U.S.C. 3235] (Capital cases)
     Section 102 [now 18 U.S.C. 3238] (Offenses on the high seas)
     Section 103 [now 18 U.S.C. 3237] (Offenses begun in one district
          and completed in another)
     Section 121 [now 18 U.S.C. 3240] (Creation of new district or
          division)

    U.S.C., Title 47:                                                 

     Section 33 (Submarine Cables; jurisdiction and venue of actions
          and offenses)
     Section 505 (Special Provisions Relating to Radio; venue of
          trials)

    U.S.C., Title 49:

     Section 41 [now 11902, 11903, 11915, 11916] (Legislation
          Supplementary to Interstate Commerce Act; liability of
          corporation carriers and agents; offenses and penalties - (1)
          Liability of corporation common carriers; offenses;
          penalties; Jurisdiction)
     Section 623 [repealed] (Civil Aeronautics Act; venue and
          prosecution of offenses)

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment eliminates the requirement that the prosecution
    shall be in a division in which the offense was committed and vests
    discretion in the court to fix the place of trial at any place
    within the district with due regard to the convenience of the
    defendant and his witnesses.
      The Sixth Amendment provides that the defendant shall have the
    right to a trial "by an impartial jury of the State and district
    wherein the crime shall have been committed, which district shall
    have been previously ascertained by law. * * *" There is no
    constitutional right to trial within a division. See United States
    v. Anderson, 328 U.S. 699, 704, 705 (1946); Barrett v. United
    States, 169 U.S. 218 (1898); Lafoon v. United States, 250 F.2d 958
    (5th Cir. 1958); Carrillo v. Squier, 137 F.2d 648 (9th Cir. 1943);
    McNealey v. Johnston, 100 F.2d 280, 282 (9th Cir. 1938). Cf. Platt
    v. Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co., 376 U.S. 240 (1964).
      The former requirement for venue within the division operated in
    an irrational fashion. Divisions have been created in only half of
    the districts, and the differentiation between those districts with
    and those without divisions often bears no relationship to
    comparative size or population. In many districts a single judge is
    required to sit in several divisions and only brief and infrequent
    terms may be held in particular divisions. As a consequence under
    the original rule there was often undue delay in the disposition of
    criminal cases - delay which was particularly serious with respect
    to defendants who had been unable to secure release on bail pending
    the holding of the next term of court.
      If the court is satisfied that there exists in the place fixed
    for trial prejudice against the defendant so great as to render the
    trial unfair, the court may, of course, fix another place of trial
    within the district (if there be such) where such prejudice does
    not exist. Cf. Rule 21 dealing with transfers between districts.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      This amendment is intended to eliminate an inconsistency between
    rule 18, which in its present form has been interpreted not to
    allow trial in a division other than that in which the offense was
    committed except as dictated by the convenience of the defendant
    and witnesses, Dupoint v. United States, 388 F.2d 39 (5th Cir.
    1968), and the Speedy Trial Act of 1974. This Act provides:
        In any case involving a defendant charged with an offense, the
      appropriate judicial officer, at the earliest practicable time,
      shall, after consultation with the counsel for the defendant and
      the attorney for the Government, set the case for trial on a day
      certain, or list it for trial on a weekly or other short-term
      trial calendar at a place within the judicial district so as to
      assure a speedy trial.
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3161(a). This provision is intended to "permit the
    trial of a case at any place within the judicial district. This
    language was included in anticipation of problems which might occur
    in districts with statutory divisions, where it could be difficult
    to set trial outside the division." H.R.Rep. No. 93-1508, 93d
    Cong., 2d Sess. 29 (1974).
      The change does not offend the venue or vicinage provisions of
    the Constitution. Article III, Sec. 2, clause 3 places venue (the
    geographical location of the trial) "in the State where the said
    Crimes shall have been committed," while the Sixth Amendment
    defines the vicinage (the geographical location of the jurors) as
    "the State and district wherein the crime shall have been
    committed, which district shall have been previously ascertained by
    law." The latter provision makes "no reference to a division within
    a judicial district." United States v. James, 528 F.2d 999 (5th
    Cir. 1976). "It follows a fortiori that when a district is not
    separated into divisions, * * * trial at any place within the
    district is allowable under the Sixth Amendment * * *." United
    States v. Fernandez, 480 F.2d 726 (2d Cir. 1973). See also
    Zicarelli v. Gray, 543 F.2d 466 (3d Cir. 1976) and cases cited
    therein.
      Nor is the change inconsistent with the Declaration of Policy in
    the Jury Selection and Service Act of 1968, which reads:
        It is the policy of the United States that all litigants in
      Federal courts entitled to trial by jury shall have the right to
      grand and petit juries selected at random from a fair cross
      section of the community in the district or division wherein the
      court convenes.
    28 U.S.C. Sec. 1861. This language does not mean that the Act
    requires "the trial court to convene not only in the district but
    also in the division wherein the offense occurred," as:
        There is no hint in the statutory history that the Jury
      Selection Act was intended to do more than provide improved
      judicial machinery so that grand and petit jurors would be
      selected at random by the use of objective qualification criteria
      to ensure a representative cross section of the district or
      division in which the grand or petit jury sits. United States v.
      Cates, 485 F.2d 26 (1st Cir. 1974).
      The amendment to rule 18 does not eliminate either of the
    existing considerations which bear upon fixing the place of trial
    within a district, but simply adds yet another consideration in the
    interest of ensuring compliance with the requirements of the Speedy
    Trial Act of 1974. The amendment does not authorize the fixing of
    the place of trial for yet other reasons. Cf. United States v.
    Fernandez, 480 F.2d 726 (2d Cir. 1973) (court in the exercise of
    its supervisory power held improper the fixing of the place of
    trial "for no apparent reason other than the convenience of the
    judge").

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 18 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      The rule requires the court to consider the convenience of
    victims - as well as the defendant and witnesses - in setting the
    place for trial within the district. The Committee recognizes that
    the court has substantial discretion to balance any competing
    interests.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    There were no changes in the text of the rule. The Committee Note
    was amended to delete a statutory reference that commentators found
    misleading, and to draw attention to the court's discretion to
    balance the competing interests, which may be more important as the
    court must consider a new set of interests.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 19                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
    Rule 19. [Reserved]
-STATUTE-


-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 20                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
    Rule 20. Transfer for Plea and Sentence

-STATUTE-
      (a) Consent to Transfer. A prosecution may be transferred from
    the district where the indictment or information is pending, or
    from which a warrant on a complaint has been issued, to the
    district where the defendant is arrested, held, or present if:
        (1) the defendant states in writing a wish to plead guilty or
      nolo contendere and to waive trial in the district where the
      indictment, information, or complaint is pending, consents in
      writing to the court's disposing of the case in the transferee
      district, and files the statement in the transferee district; and
        (2) the United States attorneys in both districts approve the
      transfer in writing.

      (b) Clerk's Duties. After receiving the defendant's statement and
    the required approvals, the clerk where the indictment,
    information, or complaint is pending must send the file, or a
    certified copy, to the clerk in the transferee district.
      (c) Effect of a Not Guilty Plea. If the defendant pleads not
    guilty after the case has been transferred under Rule 20(a), the
    clerk must return the papers to the court where the prosecution
    began, and that court must restore the proceeding to its docket.
    The defendant's statement that the defendant wished to plead guilty
    or nolo contendere is not, in any civil or criminal proceeding,
    admissible against the defendant.
      (d) Juveniles.
        (1) Consent to Transfer. A juvenile, as defined in 18 U.S.C.
      Sec. 5031, may be proceeded against as a juvenile delinquent in
      the district where the juvenile is arrested, held, or present if:
          (A) the alleged offense that occurred in the other district
        is not punishable by death or life imprisonment;
          (B) an attorney has advised the juvenile;
          (C) the court has informed the juvenile of the juvenile's
        rights - including the right to be returned to the district
        where the offense allegedly occurred - and the consequences of
        waiving those rights;
          (D) the juvenile, after receiving the court's information
        about rights, consents in writing to be proceeded against in
        the transferee district, and files the consent in the
        transferee district;
          (E) the United States attorneys for both districts approve
        the transfer in writing; and
          (F) the transferee court approves the transfer.

        (2) Clerk's Duties. After receiving the juvenile's written
      consent and the required approvals, the clerk where the
      indictment, information, or complaint is pending or where the
      alleged offense occurred must send the file, or a certified copy,
      to the clerk in the transferee district.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 22, 1974, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 3(30), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat.
    375; Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1, 1982; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1,
    1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule introduces a new procedure in the interest of
    defendants who intend to plead guilty and are arrested in a
    district other than that in which the prosecution has been
    instituted. This rule would accord to a defendant in such a
    situation an opportunity to secure a disposition of the case in the
    district where the arrest takes place, thereby relieving him of
    whatever hardship may be involved in a removal to the place where
    the prosecution is pending. In order to prevent possible
    interference with the administration of justice, however, the
    consent of the United States attorneys involved is required.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 20 has proved to be most useful. In some districts, however,
    literal compliance with the procedures spelled out by the rule has
    resulted in unnecessary delay in the disposition of cases. This
    delay has been particularly troublesome where the defendant has
    been arrested prior to the filing of an indictment or information
    against him. See e.g., the procedure described in Donovan v. United
    States, 205 F.2d 557 (10th Cir. 1953). Furthermore, the benefit of
    the rule has not been available to juveniles electing to be
    proceeded against under 18 U.S.C. Secs. 5031-5037. In an attempt to
    clarify and simplify the procedure the rule has been recast into
    four subdivisions.
      Subdivision (a). - This subdivision is intended to apply to the
    situation in which an indictment or information is pending at the
    time at which the defendant indicates his desire to have the
    transfer made. Two amendments are made to the present language of
    the rule. In the first sentence the words "or held" and "or is
    held" are added to make it clear that a person already in state or
    federal custody within a district may request a transfer of federal
    charges pending against him in another district. See 4 Barron,
    Federal Practice and Procedure 146 (1951). The words "after
    receiving a copy of the indictment or information" are deleted.
      The defendant should be permitted, if he wishes, to initiate
    transfer proceedings under the Rule without waiting for a copy of
    the indictment or information to be obtained. The defendant is
    protected against prejudice by the fact that under subdivision (c)
    he can, in effect, rescind his action by pleading not guilty after
    the transfer has been completed.
      Subdivision (b). - This subdivision is intended to apply to the
    situation in which no indictment or information is pending but the
    defendant has been arrested on a warrant issued upon a complaint in
    another district. Under the procedure set out he may initiate the
    transfer proceedings without waiting for the filing of an
    indictment or information in the district where the complaint is
    pending. Also it is made clear that the defendant may validate an
    information previously filed by waiving indictment in open court
    when he is brought before the court to plead. See United States v.
    East, 5 F.R.D. 389. (N.D. Ind. 1946); Potter v. United States, 36
    F.R.D. 394 (W.D. Mo. 1965). Here again the defendant is fully
    protected by the fact that at the time of pleading in the
    transferee court he may then refuse to waive indictment and rescind
    the transfer by pleading not guilty.
      Subdivision (c). - The last two sentences of the original rule
    are included here. The last sentence is amended to forbid use
    against the defendant of his statement that he wishes to plead
    guilty or nolo contendere whether or not he was represented by
    counsel when it was made. Since under the amended rule the
    defendant may make his statement prior to receiving a copy of the
    indictment or information, it would be unfair to permit use of that
    statement against him.
      Subdivision (d). - Under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 5033 a juvenile who has
    committed an act in violation of the law of the United States in
    one district and is apprehended in another must be returned to the
    district "having cognizance of the alleged violation" before he can
    consent to being proceeded against as a juvenile delinquent. This
    subdivision will permit a juvenile after he has been advised by
    counsel and with the approval of the court and the United States
    attorney to consent to be proceeded against in the district in
    which he is arrested or held. Consent is required only of the
    United States attorney in the district of the arrest in order to
    permit expeditious handling of juvenile cases. If it is necessary
    to recognize special interests of particular districts where
    offenses are committed - e.g., the District of Columbia with its
    separate Juvenile Court (District of Columbia Code Sec. 11-1551(a))
    - the Attorney General may do so through his Administrative control
    over United States Attorneys.
      Subdivision (e). - This subdivision is added to make it clear
    that a defendant who appears in one district in response to a
    summons issued in the district where the offense was committed may
    initiate transfer proceedings under the rule.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 20 is amended to provide that a person "present" in a
    district other than the district in which he is charged with a
    criminal offense may, subject to the other provisions of rule 20,
    plead guilty in the district in which he is "present." See rule
    6(b), Rules of Procedure for the Trial of Minor Offenses Before
    Magistrates.
      Under the former rule, practice was to have the district in which
    the offense occurred issue a bench warrant authorizing the arrest
    of the defendant in the district in which he was located. This is a
    procedural complication which serves no interest of either the
    government or the defense and therefore can properly be dispensed
    with.
      Making the fact that a defendant is "present" in the district an
    adequate basis for allowing him to plead guilty there makes it
    unnecessary to retain subdivision (e) which makes appearance in
    response to a summons equivalent to an arrest. Dropping (e) will
    eliminate some minor ambiguity created by that subdivision. See C.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 322 n. 26, p.
    612 (1969, Supp. 1971).
      There are practical advantages which will follow from the change.
    In practice a person may turn himself in in a district other than
    that in which the prosecution is pending. It may be more convenient
    to have him plead in the district in which he is present rather
    than having him or the government incur the expense of his return
    to the district in which the charge is pending.
      The danger of "forum shopping" can be controlled by the
    requirement that both United States Attorneys agree to the handling
    of the case under provisions of this rule.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 20 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with transferring a
    defendant from one district to another for the purpose of pleading
    and being sentenced. It deals with the situation where a defendant
    is located in one district (A) and is charged with a crime in
    another district (B). Under the present rule, if such a defendant
    desires to waive trial and plead guilty or nolo contendere, a judge
    in district B would issue a bench warrant for the defendant,
    authorizing his arrest in district A and his transport to district
    B for the purpose of pleading and being sentenced.
      The Supreme Court amendments permit the defendant in the above
    example to plead guilty or nolo contendere in district A, if the
    United States Attorneys for districts A and B consent.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee has added a conforming
    amendment to subdivision (d), which establishes procedures for
    dealing with defendants who are juveniles.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      This amendment to subdivision (b) is intended to expedite
    transfer proceedings under Rule 20. At present, considerable delay -
     sometimes as long as three or four weeks - occurs in subdivision
    (b) cases, that is, where no indictment or information is pending.
    This time is spent on the transmittal of defendant's statement to
    the district where the complaint is pending, the filing of an
    information or return of an indictment there, and the transmittal
    of papers in the case from that district to the district where the
    defendant is present. Under the amendment, the defendant, by also
    waiving venue, would make it possible for charges to be filed in
    the district of his arrest or presence. This would advance the
    interests of both the prosecution and defendant in a timely entry
    of a plea of guilty. No change has been made in the requirement
    that the transfer occur with the consent of both United States
    attorneys.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 20 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      New Rule 20(d)(2) applies to juvenile cases and has been added to
    parallel a similar provision in new Rule 20(b). The new provision
    provides that after the court has determined that the provisions in
    Rule 20(d)(1) have been completed and the transfer is approved, the
    file (or certified copy) must be transmitted from the original
    court to the transferee court.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Subd. (d). Pub. L. 94-64 amended subd. (d) generally.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 21                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
    Rule 21. Transfer for Trial

-STATUTE-
      (a) For Prejudice. Upon the defendant's motion, the court must
    transfer the proceeding against that defendant to another district
    if the court is satisfied that so great a prejudice against the
    defendant exists in the transferring district that the defendant
    cannot obtain a fair and impartial trial there.
      (b) For Convenience. Upon the defendant's motion, the court may
    transfer the proceeding, or one or more counts, against that
    defendant to another district for the convenience of the parties,
    any victim, and the witnesses, and in the interest of justice.
      (c) Proceedings on Transfer. When the court orders a transfer,
    the clerk must send to the transferee district the file, or a
    certified copy, and any bail taken. The prosecution will then
    continue in the transferee district.
      (d) Time to File a Motion to Transfer. A motion to transfer may
    be made at or before arraignment or at any other time the court or
    these rules prescribe.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 28, 2010, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2010.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivisions (a) and (b). 1. This rule introduces an
    addition to existing law. "Lawyers not thoroughly familiar with
    Federal practice are somewhat astounded to learn that they may not
    move for a change of venue, even if they are able to demonstrate
    that public feeling in the vicinity of the crime may render
    impossible a fair and impartial trial. This seems to be a defect in
    the federal law, which the proposed rules would cure." Homer
    Cummings, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 655; Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R. (3)1, 5.
      2. The rule provides for two kinds of motions that may be made by
    the defendant for a change of venue. The first is a motion on the
    ground that so great a prejudice exists against the defendant that
    he cannot obtain a fair and impartial trial in the district or
    division where the case is pending. Express provisions to a similar
    effect are found in many State statutes. See, e.g., Ala. Code
    (1940), Title 15, sec. 267; Cal.Pen.Code (Deering, 1941), sec.
    1033; Conn.Gen.Stat. (1930), sec. 6445; Mass.Gen.Laws (1932) c.
    277, sec. 51 (in capital cases); N.Y. Code of Criminal Procedure,
    sec. 344. The second is a motion for a change of venue in cases
    involving an offense alleged to have been committed in more than
    one district or division. In such cases the court, on defendant's
    motion, will be authorized to transfer the case to another district
    or division in which the commission of the offense is charged, if
    the court is satisfied that it is in the interest of justice to do
    so. The effect of this provision would be to modify the existing
    practice under which in such cases the Government has the final
    choice of the jurisdiction where the prosecution should be
    conducted. The matter will now be left in the discretion of the
    court.
      3. The rule provides for a change of venue only on defendant's
    motion and does not extend the same right to the prosecution, since
    the defendant has a constitutional right to a trial in the district
    where the offense was committed. Constitution of the United States,
    Article III, Sec. 2, Par. 3; Amendment VI. By making a motion for a
    change of venue, however, the defendant waives this constitutional
    right.
      4. This rule is in addition to and does not supersede existing
    statutes enabling a party to secure a change of judge on the ground
    of personal bias or prejudice, 28 U.S.C. 25 [now 144]; or enabling
    the defendant to secure a change of venue as of right in certain
    cases involving offenses committed in more than one district, 18
    U.S.C. 338a(d) [now 876, 3239] (Mailing threatening
    communications); Id. sec. 403d(d) [now 875, 3239] (Threatening
    communications in interstate commerce).
      Note to Subdivision (c). Cf. 28 U.S.C. 114 [now 1393, 1441] and
    Rule 20, supra.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). - All references to divisions are eliminated in
    accordance with the amendment to Rule 18 eliminating division
    venue. The defendant is given the right to a transfer only when he
    can show that he cannot obtain a fair and impartial trial at any
    place fixed by law for holding court in the district. Transfers
    within the district to avoid prejudice will be within the power of
    the judge to fix the place of trial as provided in the amendments
    to Rule 18. It is also made clear that on a motion to transfer
    under this subdivision the court may select the district to which
    the transfer may be made. Cf. United States v. Parr, 17 F.R.D. 512,
    519 (S.D.Tex. (1955); Parr v. United States, 351 U.S. 513 (1956).
      Subdivision (b). - The original rule limited change of venue for
    reasons other than prejudice in the district to those cases where
    venue existed in more than one district. Upon occasion, however,
    convenience of the parties and witnesses and the interest of
    justice would best be served by trial in a district in which no
    part of the offense was committed. See, e.g., Travis v. United
    States, 364 U.S. 631 (1961), holding that the only venue of a
    charge of making or filing a false non-Communist affidavit required
    by Sec. 9(h) of the National Labor Relations Act is in Washington,
    D.C. even though all the relevant witnesses may be located at the
    place where the affidavit was executed and mailed. See also Barber,
    Venue in Federal Criminal Cases: A Plea for Return to Principle, 42
    Tex.L.Rev. 39 (1963); Wright, Proposed Changes in Federal Civil,
    Criminal and Appellate Procedure, 35 F.R.D. 317, 329 (1964). The
    amendment permits a transfer in any case on motion of the defendant
    on a showing that it would be for the convenience of parties and
    witnesses, and in the interest of justice. Cf. 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    1404(a), stating a similar standard for civil cases. See also Platt
    v. Minnesota Min. & Mfg. Co., 376 U.S.C. 240 (1964). Here, as in
    subdivision (a), the court may select the district to which the
    transfer is to be made. The amendment also makes it clear that the
    court may transfer all or part of the offenses charged in a multi-
    count indictment or information. Cf. United States v. Choate, 276
    F.2d 724 (5th Cir. 1960). References to divisions are eliminated in
    accordance with the amendment to Rule 18.
      Subdivision (c). - The reference to division is eliminated in
    accordance with the amendment to Rule 18.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 21 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Amended Rule 21(d) consists of what was formerly Rule 22. The
    Committee believed that the substance of Rule 22, which addressed
    the issue of the timing of motions to transfer, was more
    appropriate for inclusion in Rule 21.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2010 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b). This amendment requires the court to consider
    the convenience of victims - as well as the convenience of the
    parties and witnesses and the interests of justice - in determining
    whether to transfer all or part of the proceeding to another
    district for trial. The Committee recognizes that the court has
    substantial discretion to balance any competing interests.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made after the amendment was released for public
    comment.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 22                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE V. VENUE

-HEAD-
    Rule 22. [Transferred]


-STATUTE-

-MISC1-
                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 22 has been abrogated. The substance of the rule is now
    located in Rule 21(d).

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE VI. TRIAL                             01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
                              TITLE VI. TRIAL                          

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 23                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 23. Jury or Nonjury Trial

-STATUTE-
      (a) Jury Trial. If the defendant is entitled to a jury trial, the
    trial must be by jury unless:
        (1) the defendant waives a jury trial in writing;
        (2) the government consents; and
        (3) the court approves.

      (b) Jury Size.
        (1) In General. A jury consists of 12 persons unless this rule
      provides otherwise.
        (2) Stipulation for a Smaller Jury. At any time before the
      verdict, the parties may, with the court's approval, stipulate in
      writing that:
          (A) the jury may consist of fewer than 12 persons; or
          (B) a jury of fewer than 12 persons may return a verdict if
        the court finds it necessary to excuse a juror for good cause
        after the trial begins.

        (3) Court Order for a Jury of 11. After the jury has retired to
      deliberate, the court may permit a jury of 11 persons to return a
      verdict, even without a stipulation by the parties, if the court
      finds good cause to excuse a juror.

      (c) Nonjury Trial. In a case tried without a jury, the court must
    find the defendant guilty or not guilty. If a party requests before
    the finding of guilty or not guilty, the court must state its
    specific findings of fact in open court or in a written decision or
    opinion.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Pub. L. 95-78, Sec.
    2(b), July 30, 1977, 91 Stat. 320; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1,
    1983; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. This rule is a formulation of the
    constitutional guaranty of trial by jury, Constitution of the
    United States, Article III, Sec. 2, Par. 3: "The Trial of all
    Crimes, except in Cases of Impeachment, shall be by Jury * * *";
    Amendment VI: "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall
    enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury
    * * *." The right to a jury trial, however, does not apply to petty
    offenses, District of Columbia v. Clawans, 300 U.S. 617; Schick v.
    United States, 195 U.S. 65; Frankfurter and Corcoran, 39 Harv.L.R.
    917. Cf. Rule 38(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28
    U.S.C., Appendix].
      2. The provision for a waiver of jury trial by the defendant
    embodies existing practice, the constitutionality of which has been
    upheld, Patton v. United States, 281 U.S. 276; Adams v. United
    States ex rel. McCann, 317 U.S. 269; Cf. Rules 38 and 39 of Federal
    Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. Many States by
    express statutory provision permit waiver of jury trial in criminal
    cases. See A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure Commentaries, pp. 807-
    811.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule would permit either a
    stipulation before the trial that the case be tried by a jury
    composed of less than 12 or a stipulation during the trial
    consenting that the case be submitted to less than 12 jurors. The
    second alternative is useful in case it becomes necessary during
    the trial to excuse a juror owing to illness or for some other
    cause and no alternate juror is available. The rule is a
    restatement of existing practice, the constitutionality of which
    was approved in Patton v. United States, 281 U.S. 276.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule changes existing law in so far
    as it requires the court in a case tried without a jury to make
    special findings of fact if requested. Cf. Connecticut practice,
    under which a judge in a criminal case tried by the court without a
    jury makes findings of fact, State v. Frost, 105 Conn. 326.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      This amendment adds to the rule a provision added to Civil Rule
    52(a) in 1946.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1977 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (b) makes it clear that the parties,
    with the approval of the court, may enter into an agreement to have
    the case decided by less than twelve jurors if one or more jurors
    are unable or disqualified to continue. For many years the Eastern
    District of Virginia has used a form entitled, "Waiver of Alternate
    Jurors." In a substantial percentage of cases the form is signed by
    the defendant, his attorney, and the Assistant United States
    Attorney in advance of trial, generally on the morning of trial. It
    is handled automatically by the courtroom deputy clerk who, after
    completion, exhibits it to the judge.
      This practice would seem to be authorized by existing rule 23(b),
    but there has been some doubt as to whether the pretrial
    stipulation is effective unless again agreed to by a defendant at
    the time a juror or jurors have to be excused. See 8 J. Moore,
    Federal Practice &#182; 23.04 (2d. ed. Cipes, 1969); C. Wright,
    Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 373 (1969). The
    proposed amendment is intended to make clear that the pretrial
    stipulation is an effective waiver, which need not be renewed at
    the time the incapacity or disqualification of the juror becomes
    known.
      In view of the fact that a defendant can make an effective
    pretrial waiver of trial by jury or by a jury of twelve, it would
    seem to follow that he can also effectively waive trial by a jury
    of twelve in situations where a juror or jurors cannot continue to
    serve.
      As has been the practice under rule 23(b), a stipulation
    addressed to the possibility that some jurors may later be excused
    need not be open-ended. That is, the stipulation may be conditioned
    upon the jury not being reduced below a certain size. See, e.g.,
    Williams v. United States, 332 F.2d 36 (7th Cir. 1964) (agreement
    to proceed if no more than 2 jurors excused for illness); Rogers v.
    United States, 319 F.2d 5 (7th Cir. 1963) (same).
      Subdivision (c) is changed to make clear the deadline for making
    a request for findings of fact and to provide that findings may be
    oral. The oral findings, of course, become a part of the record, as
    findings of fact are essential to proper appellate review on a
    conviction resulting from a nonjury trial. United States v.
    Livingston, 459 F.2d 797 (3d Cir. 1972).
      The meaning of current subdivision (c) has been in some doubt
    because there is no time specified within which a defendant must
    make a "request" that the court "find the facts specially." See,
    e.g., United States v. Rivera, 444 F.2d 136 (2d Cir. 1971), where
    the request was not made until the sentence had been imposed. In
    the opinion the court said:
        This situation might have raised the interesting and apparently
      undecided question of when a request for findings under Fed. R.
      Crim. P. 23(c) is too late, since Rivera's request was not made
      until the day after sentence was imposed. See generally Benchwick
      v. United States, 297 F.2d 330, 335 (9th Cir. 1961); United
      States v. Morris, 263 F.2d 594 (7th Cir. 1959).

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, SENATE REPORT NO. 95-354; 1977
                 AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY THE SUPREME COURT
      Subsection (b) of section 2 of the bill simply approves the
    Supreme Court proposed changes in subdivisions (b) and (c) of rule
    23 for the reasons given by the Advisory Committee on Rules of
    Practice and Procedure to the Judicial Conference.

            CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF PROPOSED 1977 AMENDMENTS        
      Section 2(b) of Pub. L. 95-78 provided that: "The amendments
    proposed by the Supreme Court [in its order of Apr. 26, 1977] to
    subdivisions (b) and (c) of rule 23 of such Rules of Criminal
    Procedure [subd. (b) and (c) of this rule] are approved."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (b). The amendment to subdivision (b)
    addresses a situation which does not occur with great frequency but
    which, when it does occur, may present a most difficult issue
    concerning the fair and efficient administration of justice. This
    situation is that in which, after the jury has retired to consider
    its verdict and any alternate jurors have been discharged, one of
    the jurors is seriously incapacitated or otherwise found to be
    unable to continue service upon the jury. The problem is acute when
    the trial has been a lengthy one and consequently the remedy of
    mistrial would necessitate a second expenditure of substantial
    prosecution, defense and court resources. See, e.g., United States
    v. Meinster, 484 F.Supp. 442 (S.D.Fla. 1980), aff'd sub nom. United
    States v. Phillips, 664 F.2d 971 (5th Cir. 1981) (juror had heart
    attack during deliberations after "well over four months of
    trial"); United States v. Barone, 83 F.R.D. 565 (S.D. Fla. 1979)
    (juror removed upon recommendation of psychiatrist during
    deliberations after "approximately six months of trial").
      It is the judgment of the Committee that when a juror is lost
    during deliberations, especially in circumstances like those in
    Barone and Meinster, it is essential that there be available a
    course of action other than mistrial. Proceeding with the remaining
    11 jurors, though heretofore impermissible under rule 23(b) absent
    stipulation by the parties and approval of the court, United States
    v. Taylor, 507 F.2d 166 (5th Cir. 1975), is constitutionally
    permissible. In Williams v. Florida, 399 U.S. 78 (1970), the Court
    concluded
      the fact that the jury at common law was composed of precisely 12
      is an historical accident, unnecessary to effect the purposes of
      the jury system and wholly without significance "except to
      mystics." * * * To read the Sixth Amendment as forever codifying
      a feature so incidental to the real purpose of the Amendment is
      to ascribe a blind formalism to the Framers which would require
      considerably more evidence than we have been able to discover in
      the history and language of the Constitution or in the reasoning
      of our past decisions. * * * Our holding does no more than leave
      these considerations to Congress and the States, unrestrained by
      an interpretation of the Sixth Amendment which would forever
      dictate the precise number which can constitute a jury.
    Williams held that a six-person jury was constitutional because
    such a jury had the "essential feature of a jury," i.e., "the
    interposition between the accused and his accuser of the common-
    sense judgment of a group of laymen, and in the community
    participation and shared responsibility which results from that
    group's determination of guilt or innocence," necessitating only a
    group "large enough to promote group deliberation, free from
    outside attempts at intimidation, and to provide a fair possibility
    for obtaining a representative cross section of the community."
    This being the case, quite clearly the occasional use of a jury of
    slightly less than 12, as contemplated by the amendment to rule
    23(b), is constitutional. Though the alignment of the Court and
    especially the separate opinion by Justice Powell in Apodoca v.
    Oregon, 406 U.S. 404 (1972), makes it at best uncertain whether
    less-than-unanimous verdicts would be constitutionally permissible
    in federal trials, it hardly follows that a requirement of
    unanimity of a group slightly less than 12 is similarly suspect.
      The Meinster case clearly reflects the need for a solution other
    than mistrial. There twelve defendants were named in a 36-count,
    100-page indictment for RICO offenses and related violations, and
    the trial lasted more than four months. Before the jury retired for
    deliberations, the trial judge inquired of defense counsel whether
    they would now agree to a jury of less than 12 should a juror later
    be unable to continue during the deliberations which were
    anticipated to be lengthy. All defense counsel rejected that
    proposal. When one juror was excused a day later after suffering a
    heart attack, all defense counsel again rejected the proposal that
    deliberations continue with the remaining 11 jurors. Thus, the
    solution now provided in rule 23(b), stipulation to a jury of less
    than 12, was not possible in that case, just as it will not be
    possible in any case in which defense counsel believe some tactical
    advantage will be gained by retrial. Yet, to declare a mistrial at
    that point would have meant that over four months of trial time
    would have gone for naught and that a comparable period of time
    would have to be expended on retrial. For a variety of reasons, not
    the least of which is the impact such a retrial would have upon
    that court's ability to comply with speedy trial limits in other
    cases, such a result is most undesirable.
      That being the case, it is certainly understandable that the
    trial judge in Meinster (as in Barone) elected to substitute an
    alternate juror at that point. Given the rule 23(b) bar on a
    verdict of less than 12 absent stipulation, United States v.
    Taylor, supra, such substitution seemed the least objectionable
    course of action. But in terms of what change in the Federal Rules
    of Criminal Procedure is to be preferred in order to facilitate
    response to such situations in the future, the judgment of the
    Advisory Committee is that it is far better to permit the
    deliberations to continue with a jury of 11 than to make a
    substitution at that point.
      In rejecting the substitution-of-juror alternative, the
    Committee's judgment is in accord with that of most commentators
    and many courts.
          There have been proposals that the rule should be amended to
        permit an alternate to be substituted if a regular juror
        becomes unable to perform his duties after the case has been
        submitted to the jury. An early draft of the original Criminal
        Rules had contained such a provision, but it was withdrawn when
        the Supreme Court itself indicated to the Advisory Committee on
        Criminal Rules doubts as to the desirability and
        constitutionality of such a procedure. These doubts are as
        forceful now as they were a quarter century ago. To permit
        substitution of an alternate after deliberations have begun
        would require either that the alternate participate though he
        has missed part of the jury discussion, or that he sit in with
        the jury in every case on the chance he might be needed. Either
        course is subject to practical difficulty and to strong
        constitutional objection.
    Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure, Sec. 388 (1969). See also
    Moore, Federal Practice par. 24.05 (2d ed. Cipes 1980) ("The
    inherent coercive effect upon an alternate who joins a jury leaning
    heavily toward a guilty verdict may result in the alternate
    reaching a premature guilty verdict"); 3 ABA Standards for Criminal
    Justice Sec. 15-2.7, commentary (2d ed. 1980) ("It is not desirable
    to allow a juror who is unfamiliar with the prior deliberations to
    suddenly join the group and participate in the voting without the
    benefit of earlier group discussion"); United States v. Lamb, 529
    F.2d 1153 (9th Cir. 1975); People v. Ryan, 19 N.Y.2d 100, 224
    N.E.2d 710 (1966). Compare People v. Collins, 17 Cal.3d 687, 131
    Cal.Rptr. 782, 522 P.2d 742 (1976); Johnson v. State, 267 Ind. 256,
    396 N.E.2d 623 (1977).
      The central difficulty with substitution, whether viewed only as
    a practical problem or a question of constitutional dimensions
    (procedural due process under the Fifth Amendment or jury trial
    under the Sixth Amendment), is that there does not appear to be any
    way to nullify the impact of what has occurred without the
    participation of the new juror. Even were it required that the jury
    "review" with the new juror their prior deliberations or that the
    jury upon substitution start deliberations anew, it still seems
    likely that the continuing jurors would be influenced by the
    earlier deliberations and that the new juror would be somewhat
    intimidated by the others by virtue of being a newcomer to the
    deliberations. As for the possibility of sending in the alternates
    at the very beginning with instructions to listen but not to
    participate until substituted, this scheme is likewise attended by
    practical difficulties and offends "the cardinal principle that the
    deliberations of the jury shall remain private and secret in every
    case." United States v. Virginia Erection Corp., 335 F.2d 868 (4th
    Cir. 1964).
      The amendment provides that if a juror is excused after the jury
    has retired to consider its verdict, it is within the discretion of
    the court whether to declare a mistrial or to permit deliberations
    to continue with 11 jurors. If the trial has been brief and not
    much would be lost by retrial, the court might well conclude that
    the unusual step of allowing a jury verdict by less than 12 jurors
    absent stipulation should not be taken. On the other hand, if the
    trial has been protracted the court is much more likely to opt for
    continuing with the remaining 11 jurors.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 23 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      In current Rule 23(b), the term "just cause" has been replaced
    with the more familiar term "good cause," that appears in other
    rules. No change in substance is intended.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1977 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by order of the United States Supreme
    Court on Apr. 26, 1976, approved by Pub. L. 95-78, effective Oct.
    1, 1977, see section 4 of Pub. L. 95-78, set out as an Effective
    Date of Pub. L. 95-78 note under section 2074 of Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 24                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 24. Trial Jurors

-STATUTE-
      (a) Examination.
        (1) In General. The court may examine prospective jurors or may
      permit the attorneys for the parties to do so.
        (2) Court Examination. If the court examines the jurors, it
      must permit the attorneys for the parties to:
          (A) ask further questions that the court considers proper; or
          (B) submit further questions that the court may ask if it
        considers them proper.

      (b) Peremptory Challenges. Each side is entitled to the number of
    peremptory challenges to prospective jurors specified below. The
    court may allow additional peremptory challenges to multiple
    defendants, and may allow the defendants to exercise those
    challenges separately or jointly.
        (1) Capital Case. Each side has 20 peremptory challenges when
      the government seeks the death penalty.
        (2) Other Felony Case. The government has 6 peremptory
      challenges and the defendant or defendants jointly have 10
      peremptory challenges when the defendant is charged with a crime
      punishable by imprisonment of more than one year.
        (3) Misdemeanor Case. Each side has 3 peremptory challenges
      when the defendant is charged with a crime punishable by fine,
      imprisonment of one year or less, or both.

      (c) Alternate Jurors.
        (1) In General. The court may impanel up to 6 alternate jurors
      to replace any jurors who are unable to perform or who are
      disqualified from performing their duties.
        (2) Procedure.
          (A) Alternate jurors must have the same qualifications and be
        selected and sworn in the same manner as any other juror.
          (B) Alternate jurors replace jurors in the same sequence in
        which the alternates were selected. An alternate juror who
        replaces a juror has the same authority as the other jurors.

        (3) Retaining Alternate Jurors. The court may retain alternate
      jurors after the jury retires to deliberate. The court must
      ensure that a retained alternate does not discuss the case with
      anyone until that alternate replaces a juror or is discharged. If
      an alternate replaces a juror after deliberations have begun, the
      court must instruct the jury to begin its deliberations anew.
        (4) Peremptory Challenges. Each side is entitled to the number
      of additional peremptory challenges to prospective alternate
      jurors specified below. These additional challenges may be used
      only to remove alternate jurors.
          (A) One or Two Alternates. One additional peremptory
        challenge is permitted when one or two alternates are
        impaneled.
          (B) Three or Four Alternates. Two additional peremptory
        challenges are permitted when three or four alternates are
        impaneled.
          (C) Five or Six Alternates. Three additional peremptory
        challenges are permitted when five or six alternates are
        impaneled.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 26, 1999, eff. Dec. 1, 1999; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is similar to Rule 47(a) of
    the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix] and also
    embodies the practice now followed by many Federal courts in
    criminal cases. Uniform procedure in civil and criminal cases on
    this point seems desirable.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule embodies existing law, 28
    U.S.C. 424 [now 1870] (Challenges), with the following
    modifications. In capital cases the number of challenges is
    equalized as between the defendant and the United States so that
    both sides have 20 challenges, which only the defendant has at
    present. While continuing the existing rule that multiple
    defendants are deemed a single party for purposes of challenges,
    the rule vests in the court discretion to allow additional
    peremptory challenges to multiple defendants and to permit such
    challenges to be exercised separately or jointly. Experience with
    cases involving numerous defendants indicates the desirability of
    this modification.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule embodies existing law, 28
    U.S.C. [former] 417a (Alternate jurors), as well as the practice
    prescribed for civil cases by Rule 47(b) of the Federal Rules of
    Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix], except that the number of
    possible alternate jurors that may be impaneled is increased from
    two to four, with a corresponding adjustment of challenges.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Experience has demonstrated that four alternate jurors may not be
    enough for some lengthy criminal trials. See e.g., United States v.
    Bentvena, 288 F.2d 442 (2d Cir. 1961); Reports of the Proceedings
    of the Judicial Conference of the United States, 1961, p. 104. The
    amendment to the first sentence increases the number authorized
    from four to six. The fourth sentence is amended to provide an
    additional peremptory challenge where a fifth or sixth alternate
    juror is used.
      The words "or are found to be" are added to the second sentence
    to make clear that an alternate juror may be called in the
    situation where it is first discovered during the trial that a
    juror was unable or disqualified to perform his duties at the time
    he was sworn. See United States v. Goldberg, 330 F.2d 30 (3rd Cir.
    1964), cert. den. 377 U.S. 953 (1964).

           CONGRESSIONAL DISAPPROVAL OF PROPOSED 1977 AMENDMENT       
      Section 2(c) of Pub. L. 95-78, July 30, 1977, 91 Stat. 320,
    effective Oct. 1, 1977, provided that: "The amendment proposed by
    the Supreme Court [in its order of Apr. 26, 1977] to rule 24 of
    such Rules of Criminal Procedure is disapproved and shall not take
    effect."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1999 AMENDMENT             
      As currently written, Rule 24(c) explicitly requires the court to
    discharge all of the alternate jurors - who have not been selected
    to replace other jurors - when the jury retires to deliberate. That
    requirement is grounded on the concern that after the case has been
    submitted to the jury, its deliberations must be private and
    inviolate. United States v. Houlihan, 92 F.3d 1271, 1285 (1st Cir.
    1996), citing United States v. Virginia Election Corp., 335 F.2d
    868, 872 (4th Cir. 1964).
      Rule 23(b) provides that in some circumstances a verdict may be
    returned by eleven jurors. In addition, there may be cases where it
    is better to retain the alternates when the jury retires, insulate
    them from the deliberation process, and have them available should
    one or more vacancies occur in the jury. That might be especially
    appropriate in a long, costly, and complicated case. To that end
    the Committee believed that the court should have the discretion to
    decide whether to retain or discharge the alternates at the time
    the jury retires to deliberate and to use Rule 23(b) to proceed
    with eleven jurors or to substitute a juror or jurors with
    alternate jurors who have not been discharged.
      In order to protect the sanctity of the deliberative process, the
    rule requires the court to take appropriate steps to insulate the
    alternate jurors. That may be done, for example, by separating the
    alternates from the deliberating jurors and instructing the
    alternate jurors not to discuss the case with any other person
    until they replace a regular juror. See, e.g., United States v.
    Olano, 507 U.S. 725 (1993) (not plain error to permit alternate
    jurors to sit in during deliberations); United States v. Houlihan,
    92 F.3d 1271, 1286-88 (1st Cir. 1996) (harmless error to retain
    alternate jurors in violation of Rule 24(c); in finding harmless
    error the court cited the steps taken by the trial judge to
    insulate the alternates). If alternates are used, the jurors must
    be instructed that they must begin their deliberations anew.
      Finally, subsection (c) has been reorganized and restyled.
      GAP Report - Rule 24(c). The final sentence of Rule 24(c) was
    moved from the committee note to the rule to emphasize that if an
    alternate replaces a juror during deliberations, the court shall
    instruct the jury to begin its deliberations anew.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 24 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      In restyling Rule 24(a), the Committee deleted the language that
    authorized the defendant to conduct voir dire of prospective
    jurors. The Committee believed that the current language was
    potentially ambiguous and could lead one incorrectly to conclude
    that a defendant, represented by counsel, could personally conduct
    voir dire or additional voir dire. The Committee believed that the
    intent of the current provision was to permit a defendant to
    participate personally in voir dire only if the defendant was
    acting pro se. Amended Rule 24(a) refers only to attorneys for the
    parties, i.e., the defense counsel and the attorney for the
    government, with the understanding that if the defendant is not
    represented by counsel, the court may still, in its discretion,
    permit the defendant to participate in voir dire. In summary, the
    Committee intends no change in practice.
      Finally, the rule authorizes the court in multi-defendant cases
    to grant additional peremptory challenges to the defendants. If the
    court does so, the prosecution may request additional challenges in
    a multi-defendant case, not to exceed the total number available to
    the defendants jointly. The court, however, is not required to
    equalize the number of challenges where additional challenges are
    granted to the defendant.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 25                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 25. Judge's Disability

-STATUTE-
      (a) During Trial. Any judge regularly sitting in or assigned to
    the court may complete a jury trial if:
        (1) the judge before whom the trial began cannot proceed
      because of death, sickness, or other disability; and
        (2) the judge completing the trial certifies familiarity with
      the trial record.

      (b) After a Verdict or Finding of Guilty.
        (1) In General. After a verdict or finding of guilty, any judge
      regularly sitting in or assigned to a court may complete the
      court's duties if the judge who presided at trial cannot perform
      those duties because of absence, death, sickness, or other
      disability.
        (2) Granting a New Trial. The successor judge may grant a new
      trial if satisfied that:
          (A) a judge other than the one who presided at the trial
        cannot perform the post-trial duties; or
          (B) a new trial is necessary for some other reason.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is similar to Rule 63 of the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. See also, 28 U.S.C. [former] 776
    (Bill of exceptions; authentication; signing of by judge).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      In September, 1963, the Judicial Conference of the United States
    approved a recommendation of its Committee on Court Administration
    that provision be made for substitution of a judge who becomes
    disabled during trial. The problem has become serious because of
    the increase in the number of long criminal trials. See 1963 Annual
    Report of the Director of the Administrative Office of the United
    States Courts, p. 114, reporting a 25% increase in criminal trials
    lasting more than one week in fiscal year 1963 over 1962.
      Subdivision (a). - The amendment casts the rule into two
    subdivisions and in subdivision (a) provides for substitution of a
    judge during a jury trial upon his certification that he has
    familiarized himself with the record of the trial. For similar
    provisions see Alaska Rules of Crim. Proc., Rule 25; California
    Penal Code, Sec. 1053.
      Subdivision (b). - The words "from the district" are deleted to
    permit the local judge to act in those situations where a judge who
    has been assigned from within the district to try the case is, at
    the time for sentence, etc., back at his regular place of holding
    court which may be several hundred miles from the place of trial.
    It is not intended, of course, that substitutions shall be made
    where the judge who tried the case is available within a reasonable
    distance from the place of trial.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 25 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Rule 25(b)(2) addresses the possibility of a new trial when a
    judge determines that no other judge could perform post-trial
    duties or when the judge determines that there is some other reason
    for doing so. The current rule indicates that those reasons must be
    "appropriate." The Committee, however, believed that a better term
    would be "necessary," because that term includes notions of
    manifest necessity. No change in meaning or practice is intended.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 26                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 26. Taking Testimony

-STATUTE-
      In every trial the testimony of witnesses must be taken in open
    court, unless otherwise provided by a statute or by rules adopted
    under 28 U.S.C. Secs. 2072-2077.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Nov. 20, 1972, eff. July 1, 1975; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule contemplates the development of a uniform body of
    rules of evidence to be applicable in trials of criminal cases in
    the Federal courts. It is based on Funk v. United States, 290 U.S.
    371, and Wolfle v. United States, 291 U.S. 7, which indicated that
    in the absence of statute the Federal courts in criminal cases are
    not bound by the State law of evidence, but are guided by common
    law principles as interpreted by the Federal courts "in the light
    of reason and experience." The rule does not fetter the applicable
    law of evidence to that originally existing at common law. It is
    contemplated that the law may be modified and adjusted from time to
    time by judicial decisions. See Homer Cummings, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 655;
    Vanderbilt, 29 A.B.A.Jour. 377; Holtzoff, 12 George Washington L.R.
    119, 131-132; Holtzoff, 3 F.R.D. 445, 453; Howard, 51 Yale L.Jour.
    763; Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R. (3)1, 5-6.
      2. This rule differs from the corresponding rule for civil cases
    (Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 43(a) [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix]), in that this rule contemplates a uniform body of rules
    of evidence to govern in criminal trials in the Federal courts,
    while the rule for civil cases prescribes partial conformity to
    State law and, therefore, results in a divergence as between
    various districts. Since in civil actions in which Federal
    jurisdiction is based on diversity of citizenship, the State
    substantive law governs the rights of the parties, uniformity of
    rules of evidence among different districts does not appear
    necessary. On the other hand, since all Federal crimes are
    statutory and all criminal prosecutions in the Federal courts are
    based on acts of Congress, uniform rules of evidence appear
    desirable if not essential in criminal cases, as otherwise the same
    facts under differing rules of evidence may lead to a conviction in
    one district and to an acquittal in another.
      3. This rule expressly continues existing statutes governing the
    admissibility of evidence and the competency and privileges of
    witnesses. Among such statutes are the following:

    U.S.C., Title 8:

     Section 138 [see 1326, 1328, 1329] (Importation of aliens for
          immoral purposes; attempt to re-enter after deportation;
          penalty)

    U.S.C., Title 28:

     Section 632 [now 18 U.S.C. 3481] (Competency of witnesses governed
          by State laws; defendants in criminal cases)
     Section 633 [former] (Competency of witnesses governed by State
          laws; husband or wife of defendant in prosecution for bigamy)
     Section 634 [former] (Testimony of witnesses before Congress)
     Section 638 [now 1731] (Comparison of handwriting to determine
          genuineness)
     Section 695 [now 1732] (Admissibility)
     Section 695a [now 18 U.S.C. 3491] (Foreign documents)

    U.S.C., Title 46:

     Section 193 (Bills of lading to be issued; contents)

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      The first sentence is retained, with appropriate narrowing of the
    title, since its subject is not covered in the Rules of Evidence.
    The second sentence is deleted because the Rules of Evidence govern
    admissibility of evidence, competency of witnesses, and privilege.
    The language is broadened, however, to take account of the Rules of
    Evidence and any other rules adopted by the Supreme Court.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 26 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Rule 26 is amended, by deleting the word "orally," to accommodate
    witnesses who are not able to present oral testimony in open court
    and may need, for example, a sign language interpreter. The change
    conforms the rule, in that respect, to Federal Rule of Civil
    Procedure 43.

          EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENT PROPOSED NOVEMBER 20, 1972      
      Amendment of this rule embraced by the order entered by the
    Supreme Court of the United States on November 20, 1972, effective
    on the 180th day beginning after January 2, 1975, see section 3 of
    Pub. L. 93-595, Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1959, set out as a note
    under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 26.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 26.1. Foreign Law Determination

-STATUTE-
      A party intending to raise an issue of foreign law must provide
    the court and all parties with reasonable written notice. Issues of
    foreign law are questions of law, but in deciding such issues a
    court may consider any relevant material or source - including
    testimony - without regard to the Federal Rules of Evidence.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; amended Nov. 20, 1972,
    eff. July 1, 1975; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966            
      The original Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure did not contain
    a provision explicitly regulating the determination of foreign law.
    The resolution of issues of foreign law, when relevant in federal
    criminal proceedings, falls within the general compass of Rule 26
    which provides for application of "the [evidentiary] principles of
    the common law as they may be interpreted by the courts of the
    United States in the light of reason and experience." See Green,
    Preliminary Report on the Advisability and Feasibility of
    Developing Uniform Rules of Evidence for the United States District
    Courts 6-7, 17-18 (1962). Although traditional "commonlaw" methods
    for determining foreign-country law have proved inadequate, the
    courts have not developed more appropriate practices on the basis
    of this flexible rule. Cf. Green, op. cit. supra at 26-28. On the
    inadequacy of common-law procedures for determining foreign law,
    see, e.g., Nussbaum, Proving the Law of Foreign Countries, 3
    Am.J.Comp.L. 60 (1954).
      Problems of foreign law that must be resolved in accordance with
    the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure are most likely to arise in
    places such as Washington, D.C., the Canal Zone, Guam, and the
    Virgin Islands, where the federal courts have general criminal
    jurisdiction. However, issues of foreign law may also arise in
    criminal proceedings commenced in other federal districts. For
    example, in an extradition proceeding, reasonable ground to believe
    that the person sought to be extradited is charged with, or was
    convicted of, a crime under the laws of the demanding state must
    generally be shown. See Factor v. Laubenheimer, 290 U.S. 276
    (1933); Fernandez v. Phillips, 268 U.S. 311 (1925); Bishop
    International Law: Cases and Materials (2d ed. 1962). Further,
    foreign law may be invoked to justify non-compliance with a
    subpoena duces tecum, Application of Chase Manhattan Bank, 297 F.2d
    611 (2d Cir. 1962), and under certain circumstances, as a defense
    to prosecution. Cf. American Banana Co. v. United Fruit Co., 213
    U.S. 347 (1909). The content of foreign law may also be relevant in
    proceedings arising under 18 U.S.C. Secs. 1201, 2312-2317.
      Rule 26.1 is substantially the same as Civil Rule 44.1. A full
    explanation of the merits and practicability of the rule appear in
    the Advisory Committee's Note to Civil Rule 44.1. It is necessary
    here to add only one comment to the explanations there made. The
    second sentence of the rule frees the court from the restraints of
    the ordinary rules of evidence in determining foreign law. This
    freedom, made necessary by the peculiar nature of the issue of
    foreign law, should not constitute an unconstitutional deprivation
    of the defendant's rights to confrontation of witnesses. The issue
    is essentially one of law rather than of fact. Furthermore, the
    cases have held that the Sixth Amendment does not serve as a rigid
    barrier against the development of reasonable and necessary
    exceptions to the hearsay rule. See Kay v. United States, 255 F.2d
    476, 480 (4th Cir. 1958), cert. den., 358 U.S. 825 (1958); Matthews
    v. United States, 217 F.2d 409, 418 (5th Cir. 1954); United States
    v. Leathers, 135 F.2d 507 (2d Cir. 1943); and cf., Painter v.
    Texas, 85 S.Ct. 1065 (1965); Douglas v. Alabama, 85 S.Ct. 1074
    (1965).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Since the purpose is to free the judge, in determining foreign
    law, from restrictive evidentiary rules, the reference is made to
    the Rules of Evidence generally.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 26.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Evidence, referred to in text, are set out
    in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
          EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENT PROPOSED NOVEMBER 20, 1972      
      Amendment of this rule embraced by the order entered by the
    Supreme Court of the United States on November 20, 1972, effective
    on the 180th day beginning after January 2, 1975, see section 3 of
    Pub. L. 93-595, Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1959, set out as a note
    under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 26.2                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 26.2. Producing a Witness's Statement

-STATUTE-
      (a) Motion to Produce. After a witness other than the defendant
    has testified on direct examination, the court, on motion of a
    party who did not call the witness, must order an attorney for the
    government or the defendant and the defendant's attorney to
    produce, for the examination and use of the moving party, any
    statement of the witness that is in their possession and that
    relates to the subject matter of the witness's testimony.
      (b) Producing the Entire Statement. If the entire statement
    relates to the subject matter of the witness's testimony, the court
    must order that the statement be delivered to the moving party.
      (c) Producing a Redacted Statement. If the party who called the
    witness claims that the statement contains information that is
    privileged or does not relate to the subject matter of the
    witness's testimony, the court must inspect the statement in
    camera. After excising any privileged or unrelated portions, the
    court must order delivery of the redacted statement to the moving
    party. If the defendant objects to an excision, the court must
    preserve the entire statement with the excised portion indicated,
    under seal, as part of the record.
      (d) Recess to Examine a Statement. The court may recess the
    proceedings to allow time for a party to examine the statement and
    prepare for its use.
      (e) Sanction for Failure to Produce or Deliver a Statement. If
    the party who called the witness disobeys an order to produce or
    deliver a statement, the court must strike the witness's testimony
    from the record. If an attorney for the government disobeys the
    order, the court must declare a mistrial if justice so requires.
      (f) "Statement" Defined. As used in this rule, a witness's
    "statement" means:
        (1) a written statement that the witness makes and signs, or
      otherwise adopts or approves;
        (2) a substantially verbatim, contemporaneously recorded
      recital of the witness's oral statement that is contained in any
      recording or any transcription of a recording; or
        (3) the witness's statement to a grand jury, however taken or
      recorded, or a transcription of such a statement.

      (g) Scope. This rule applies at trial, at a suppression hearing
    under Rule 12, and to the extent specified in the following rules:
        (1) Rule 5.1(h) (preliminary hearing);
        (2) Rule 32(i)(2) (sentencing);
        (3) Rule 32.1(e) (hearing to revoke or modify probation or
      supervised release);
        (4) Rule 46(j) (detention hearing); and
        (5) Rule 8 of the Rules Governing Proceedings under 28 U.S.C.
      Sec. 2255.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Dec. 1, 1980; amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 24, 1998, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979            
      S. 1437, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. (1977), would place in the
    criminal rules the substance of what is now 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3500
    (the Jencks Act). Underlying this and certain other additions to
    the rules contemplated by S. 1437 is the notion that provisions
    which are purely procedural in nature should appear in the Federal
    Rules of Criminal Procedure rather than in Title 18. See Reform of
    the Federal Criminal Laws, Part VI: Hearings on S. 1, S. 716, and
    S. 1400, Subcomm. on Criminal Laws and Procedures, Senate Judiciary
    Comm., 93rd Cong., 1st Sess. (statement of Judge Albert B. Maris,
    at page 5503). Rule 26.2 is identical to the S.1437 rule except as
    indicated by the marked additions and deletions. As those changes
    show, rule 26.2 provides for production of the statements of
    defense witnesses at trial in essentially the same manner as is now
    provided for with respect to the statements of government
    witnesses. Thus, the proposed rule reflects these two judgments:
    (i) that the subject matter - production of the statements of
    witnesses - is more appropriately dealt with in the criminal rules;
    and (ii) that in light of United States v. Nobles, 422 U.S. 225
    (1975), it is important to establish procedures for the production
    of defense witnesses' statements as well. The rule is not intended
    to discourage the practice of voluntary disclosure at an earlier
    time so as to avoid delays at trial.
      In Nobles, defense counsel sought to introduce the testimony of a
    defense investigator who prior to trial had interviewed prospective
    prosecution witnesses and had prepared a report embodying the
    essence of their conversation. When the defendant called the
    investigator to impeach eyewitness testimony identifying the
    defendant as the robber, the trial judge granted the prosecutor the
    right to inspect those portions of the investigator's report
    relating to the witnesses' statements, as a potential basis for
    cross-examination of the investigator. When the defense declined to
    produce the report, the trail judge refused to permit the
    investigator to testify. The Supreme Court unanimously upheld the
    trail court's actions, finding that neither the Fifth nor Sixth
    Amendments nor the attorney work product doctrine prevented
    disclosure of such a document at trial. Noting "the federal
    judiciary's inherent power to require the prosecution to produce
    the previously recorded statements of its witnesses so that the
    defense may get the full benefit of cross-examinations and the
    truth-finding process may be enhanced," the Court rejected the
    notion "that the Fifth amendment renders criminal discovery
    'basically a one-way street,' " and thus concluded that "in a
    proper case, the prosecution can call upon that same power for
    production of witness statements that facilitate 'full disclosure
    of all the [relevant] facts.' "
      The rule, consistent with the reasoning in Nobles, is designed to
    place the disclosure of prior relevant statements of a defense
    witness in the possession of the defense on the same legal footing
    as is the disclosure of prior statements of prosecution witnesses
    in the hands of the government under the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3500 (which S. 1437 would replace with the rule set out therein).
    See United States v. Pulvirenti, 408 F.Supp. 12 (E.D.Mich. 1976),
    holding that under Nobles "[t]he obligation [of disclosure] placed
    on the defendant should be the reciprocal of that placed upon the
    government * * * [as] defined by the Jencks Act." Several state
    courts have likewise concluded that witness statements in the hands
    of the defense at trial should be disclosed on the same basis that
    prosecution witness statements are disclosed, in order to promote
    the concept of the trail as a search for truth. See, e.g., People
    v. Sanders, 110 Ill.App.2d 85, 249 N.E.2d 124 (1969); State v.
    Montague, 55 N.J. 371, 262 A.2d 398 (1970); People v. Damon, 24
    N.Y.2d 256, 299 N.Y.S.2d 830, 247 N.E.2d 651 (1959).
      The rule, with minor exceptions, makes the procedure identical
    for both prosecution and defense witnesses, including the provision
    directing the court, whenever a claim is made that disclosure would
    be improper because the statement contains irrelevant matter, to
    examine the statements in camera and excise such matter as should
    not be disclosed. This provision acts as a safeguard against abuse
    and will enable a defendant who believes that a demand is being
    improperly made to secure a swift and just resolution of the issue.
      The treatment as to defense witnesses of necessity differs
    slightly from the treatment as to prosecution witnesses in terms of
    the sanction for a refusal to comply with the court's disclosure
    order. Under the Jencks Act and the rule proposed in S. 1437, if
    the prosecution refuses to abide by the court's order, the court is
    required to strike the witness's testimony unless in its discretion
    it determines that the more serious sanction of a mistrial in favor
    of the accused is warranted. Under this rule, if a defendant
    refuses to comply with the court's disclosure order, the court's
    only alternative is to enter an order striking or precluding the
    testimony of the witness, as was done in Nobles.
      Under subdivision (a) of the rule, the motion for production may
    be made by "a party who did not call the witness." Thus, it also
    requires disclosure of statements in the possession of either party
    when the witness is called neither by the prosecution nor the
    defense but by the court pursuant to the Federal Rules of Evidence.
    Present law does not deal with this situation, which consistency
    requires be treated in an identical manner as the disclosure of
    statements of witnesses called by a party to the case.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      New subdivision (g) recognizes other contemporaneous amendments
    in the Rules of Criminal Procedure which extend the application of
    Rule 26.2 to other proceedings. Those changes are thus consistent
    with the extension of Rule 26.2 in 1983 to suppression hearings
    conducted under Rule 12. See Rule 12(i).
      In extending Rule 26.2 to suppression hearings in 1983, the
    Committee offered several reasons. First, production of witness
    statements enhances the ability of the court to assess the
    witnesses' credibility and thus assists the court in making
    accurate factual determinations at suppression hearings. Second,
    because witnesses testifying at a suppression hearing may not
    necessarily testify at the trial itself, waiting until after a
    witness testifies at trial before requiring production of that
    witness's statement would be futile. Third, the Committee believed
    that it would be feasible to leave the suppression issue open until
    trial, where Rule 26.2 would then be applicable. Finally, one of
    the central reasons for requiring production of statements at
    suppression hearings was the recognition that by its nature, the
    results of a suppression hearing have a profound and ultimate
    impact on the issues presented at trial.
      The reasons given in 1983 for extending Rule 26.2 to a
    suppression hearing are equally compelling with regard to other
    adversary type hearings which ultimately depend on accurate and
    reliable information. That is, there is a continuing need for
    information affecting the credibility of witnesses who present
    testimony. And that need exists without regard to whether the
    witness is presenting testimony at a pretrial hearing, at a trial,
    or at a post-trial proceeding.
      As noted in the 1983 Advisory Committee Note to Rule 12(i), the
    courts have generally declined to extend the Jencks Act, 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3500, beyond the confines of actual trial testimony. That
    result will be obviated by the addition of Rule 26.2(g) and
    amendments to the Rules noted in that new subdivision.
      Although amendments to Rules 32, 32.1, 46, and Rule 8 of the
    Rules Governing Proceedings under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255 specifically
    address the requirement of producing a witness's statement, Rule
    26.2 has become known as the central "rule" requiring production of
    statements. Thus, the references in the Rule itself will assist the
    bench and bar in locating other Rules which include similar
    provisions.
      The amendment to Rule 26.2 and the other designated Rules is not
    intended to require production of a witness's statement before the
    witness actually testifies.
      Minor conforming amendments have been made to subsection (d) to
    reflect that Rule 26.2 will be applicable to proceedings other than
    the trial itself. And language has been added to subsection (c) to
    recognize explicitly that privileged matter may be excised from the
    witness's prior statement.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      The amendment to subdivision (g) mirrors similar amendments made
    in 1993 to this rule and to other Rules of Criminal Procedure which
    extended the application of Rule 26.2 to other proceedings, both
    pretrial and post-trial. This amendment extends the requirement of
    producing a witness' statement to preliminary examinations
    conducted under Rule 5.1.
      Subdivision (g)(1) has been amended to reflect changes to Rule
    32.
      Changes Made to Rule 26.2 After Publication ("GAP Report"). The
    Committee made no changes to the published draft.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 26.2 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Current Rule 26.2(c) states that if the court withholds a portion
    of a statement, over the defendant's objection, "the attorney for
    the government" must preserve the statement. The Committee believed
    that the better rule would be for the court to simply seal the
    entire statement as a part of the record, in the event that there
    is an appeal.
      Also, the terminology in Rule 26.2(c) has been changed. The rule
    now speaks in terms of a "redacted" statement instead of an
    "excised" statement. No change in practice is intended.
      Finally, the list of proceedings in Rule 26.2(g) has been placed
    in rule-number order.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Rules Governing Proceedings under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255,
    referred to in subd. (g)(5), are set out under section 2255 of
    Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
                          EFFECTIVE DATE OF RULE                      
      This rule added by order of the United States Supreme Court of
    Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1, 1980, see section 1(1) of Pub. L.
    96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 326, set out as a note under section
    2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 26.3                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 26.3. Mistrial

-STATUTE-
      Before ordering a mistrial, the court must give each defendant
    and the government an opportunity to comment on the propriety of
    the order, to state whether that party consents or objects, and to
    suggest alternatives.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; amended Apr. 29, 2002,
    eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993            
      Rule 26.3 is a new rule designed to reduce the possibility of an
    erroneously ordered mistrial which could produce adverse and
    irretrievable consequences. The Rule is not designed to change the
    substantive law governing mistrials. Instead it is directed at
    providing both sides an opportunity to place on the record their
    views about the proposed mistrial order. In particular, the court
    must give each side an opportunity to state whether it objects or
    consents to the order.
      Several cases have held that retrial of a defendant was barred by
    the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Constitution because the trial
    court had abused its discretion in declaring a mistrial. See United
    States v. Dixon, 913 F.2d 1305 (8th Cir. 1990); United States v.
    Bates, 917 F.2d 388 (9th Cir. 1990). In both cases the appellate
    courts concluded that the trial court had acted precipitately and
    had failed to solicit the parties' views on the necessity of a
    mistrial and the feasibility of any alternative action. The new
    Rule is designed to remedy that situation.
      The Committee regards the Rule as a balanced and modest
    procedural device that could benefit both the prosecution and the
    defense. While the Dixon and Bates decisions adversely affected the
    government's interest in prosecuting serious crimes, the new Rule
    could also benefit defendants. The Rule ensures that a defendant
    has the opportunity to dissuade a judge from declaring a mistrial
    in a case where granting one would not be an abuse of discretion,
    but the defendant believes that the prospects for a favorable
    outcome before that particular court, or jury, are greater than
    they might be upon retrial.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 26.3 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 27                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 27. Proving an Official Record

-STATUTE-
      A party may prove an official record, an entry in such a record,
    or the lack of a record or entry in the same manner as in a civil
    action.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule incorporates by reference Rule 44 of the Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S.C., Appendix, which provided a simple
    and uniform method of proving public records and entry or lack of
    entry therein. The rule does not supersede statutes regulating
    modes of proof in respect to specific official records. In such
    cases parties have the option of following the general rule or the
    pertinent statute. Among the many statutes are:

    U.S.C., Title 28:

     Section 661 [now 1733] (Copies of department or corporation
          records and papers; admissibility; seal)
     Section 662 [now 1733] (Same; in office of General Counsel of the
          Treasury)
     Section 663 [now 1733] (Instruments and papers of Comptroller of
          Currency; admissibility)
     Section 664 [now 1733] (Organization certificates of national
          banks; admissibility)
     Section 665 [now 1733] (Transcripts from books of Treasury in
          suits against delinquents; admissibility)
     Section 666 [now 1733] (Same; certificate by Secretary or
          Assistant Secretary)
     Section 668 [now 18 U.S.C. 3497] (Same; indictments for
          embezzlement of public moneys)
     Section 669 [former] (Copies of returns in returns office
          admissible)
     Section 670 [now 1743] (Admissibility of copies of statements of
          demands by Post Office Department)
     Section 671 [now 1733] (Admissibility of copies of post office
          records and statement of accounts)
     Section 672 [see 1733] (Admissibility of copies of records in
          General Land Office)
     Section 673 [now 1744] (Admissibility of copies of records, and so
          forth, of Patent Office)
     Section 674 [now 1745] (Copies of foreign letters patent as prima
          facie evidence)
     Section 675 [former] (Copies of specifications and drawings of
          patents admissible)
     Section 676 [now 1736] (Extracts from Journals of Congress
          admissible when injunction of secrecy removed)
     Section 677 [now 1740] (Copies of records in offices of United
          States consuls admissible)
     Section 678 [former] (Books and papers in certain district courts)
     Section 679 [former] (Records in clerks' offices, western district
          of North Carolina)
     Section 680 [former] (Records in clerks' offices of former
          district of California)
     Section 681 [now 1734] (Original records lost or destroyed;
          certified copy admissible)
     Section 682 [now 1734] (Same; when certified copy not obtainable)
     Section 685 [now 1735] (Same; certified copy of official papers)
     Section 687 [now 1738] (Authentication of legislative acts; proof
          of judicial proceedings of State)
     Section 688 [now 1739] (Proofs of records in offices not
          pertaining to courts)
     Section 689 [now 1742] (Copies of foreign records relating to land
          titles)
     Section 695a-695h [now 18 U.S.C. 3491-3496; 22 U.S.C. 1204; 1741]
          (Foreign documents)

    U.S.C., Title 1:

     Section 30 [now 112] (Statutes at Large; contents; admissibility
          in evidence)
     Section 30a [now 113] ("Little and Brown's" edition of laws and
          treaties competent evidence of Acts of Congress)
     Section 54 [now 204] (Codes and Supplements as establishing prima
          facie the Laws of United States and District of Columbia,
          citation of Codes and Supplements)
     Section 55 [now 209] (Copies of Supplements to Code of Laws of
          United States and of District of Columbia Code and
          Supplements; conclusive evidence of original)

    U.S.C., Title 5:

     Section 490 [see 28 U.S.C. 1733] (Records of Department of
          Interior; authenticated copies as evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 8:

     Section 717(b) [see 1435, 1482] (Former citizens of United States
          excepted from certain requirements; citizenship lost by
          spouse's alienage or loss of United States citizenship, or by
          entering armed forces of foreign state or acquiring its
          nationality)
     Section 727(g) [see 1443] (Administration of naturalization laws;
          rules and regulations; instruction in citizenship; forms;
          oaths; depositions; documents in evidence; photographic
          studio)

    U.S.C., Title 15:

     Section 127 [see 1057(e)] (Trade-marks; copies of records as
          evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 20:

     Section 52 (Smithsonian Institution; evidence of title to site and
          buildings)

    U.S.C., Title 25:

     Section 6 (Bureau of Indian Affairs; seal; authenticated and
          certified documents; evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 31:

     Section 46 [see 704] (Laws governing General Accounting Office;
          copies of books, records, etc., thereof as evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 38:

     Section 11g [see 302] (Seal of Veterans' Administration;
          authentication of copies of records)

    U.S.C., Title 43:

     Section 57 (Authenticated copies or extracts from records as
          evidence)
     Section 58 (Transcripts from records of Louisiana)
     Section 59 (Official papers in office of surveyor general in
          California; papers; copies)
     Section 83 (Transcripts of records as evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 44:

     Section 300h [now 2112] (National Archives; seal; reproduction of
          archives; fee; admissibility in evidence of reproductions)
     Section 307 [now 1507] (Filing document as constructive notice;
          publication in Register as presumption of validity; judicial
          notice; citation)

    U.S.C., Title 47:

     Section 412 (Documents filed with Federal Communications
          Commission as public records; prima facie evidence;
          confidential records)

    U.S.C., Title 49:

     Section 16 [now 10303] (Orders of Commission and enforcement
          thereof; forfeitures - (13) copies of schedules, tariffs,
          contracts, etc., kept as public records; evidence)

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 27 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 28                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 28. Interpreters

-STATUTE-
      The court may select, appoint, and set the reasonable
    compensation for an interpreter. The compensation must be paid from
    funds provided by law or by the government, as the court may
    direct.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Nov. 20, 1972, eff.
    July 1, 1975; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The power of the court to call its own witnesses, though rarely
    invoked, is recognized in the Federal courts, Young v. United
    States, 107 F.2d 490 (C.C.A. 5th); Litsinger v. United States, 44
    F.2d 45 (C.C.A. 7th). This rule provides a procedure whereby the
    court may, if it chooses, exercise this power in connection with
    expert witnesses. The rule is based, in part, on the Uniform Expert
    Testimony Act, drafted by the Commissioners on Uniform State Laws,
    Hand Book of the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform
    State Laws (1937), 337; see, also, Wigmore - Evidence, 3d Ed., sec.
    563; A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure, secs. 307-309; National
    Commission on Law of Observance and Enforcement - Report on
    Criminal Procedure, 37. Similar provisions are found in the
    statutes of a number of States: Wisconsin - Wis.Stat. (1941), sec.
    357.12; Indiana - Ind.Stat.Ann. (Burns, 1933), sec. 9-1702;
    California - Cal.Pen.Code (Deering, 1941), sec. 1027.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). - The original rule is made a separate
    subdivision. The amendment permits the court to inform the witness
    of his duties in writing since it often constitutes an unnecessary
    inconvenience and expense to require the witness to appear in court
    for such purpose.
      Subdivision (b). - This new subdivision authorizes the court to
    appoint and provide for the compensation of interpreters. General
    language is used to give discretion to the court to appoint
    interpreters in all appropriate situations. Interpreters may be
    needed to interpret the testimony of non-English speaking witnesses
    or to assist non-English speaking defendants in understanding the
    proceedings or in communicating with assigned counsel. Interpreters
    may also be needed where a witness or a defendant is deaf.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). This subdivision is stricken, since the subject
    of court-appointed expert witnesses is covered in Evidence Rule 706
    in detail.
      Subdivision (b). The provisions of subdivision (b) are retained.
    Although Evidence Rule 703 specifies the qualifications of
    interpreters and the form of oath to be administered to them, it
    does not cover their appointment or compensation.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 28 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

          EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENT PROPOSED NOVEMBER 20, 1972      
      Amendment of this rule embraced by the order entered by the
    Supreme Court of the United States on November 20, 1972, effective
    on the 180th day beginning after January 2, 1975, see section 3 of
    Pub. L. 93-595, Jan. 2, 1975, 88 Stat. 1959, set out as a note
    under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 29                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 29. Motion for a Judgment of Acquittal

-STATUTE-
      (a) Before Submission to the Jury. After the government closes
    its evidence or after the close of all the evidence, the court on
    the defendant's motion must enter a judgment of acquittal of any
    offense for which the evidence is insufficient to sustain a
    conviction. The court may on its own consider whether the evidence
    is insufficient to sustain a conviction. If the court denies a
    motion for a judgment of acquittal at the close of the government's
    evidence, the defendant may offer evidence without having reserved
    the right to do so.
      (b) Reserving Decision. The court may reserve decision on the
    motion, proceed with the trial (where the motion is made before the
    close of all the evidence), submit the case to the jury, and decide
    the motion either before the jury returns a verdict or after it
    returns a verdict of guilty or is discharged without having
    returned a verdict. If the court reserves decision, it must decide
    the motion on the basis of the evidence at the time the ruling was
    reserved.
      (c) After Jury Verdict or Discharge.
        (1) Time for a Motion. A defendant may move for a judgment of
      acquittal, or renew such a motion, within 14 days after a guilty
      verdict or after the court discharges the jury, whichever is
      later.
        (2) Ruling on the Motion. If the jury has returned a guilty
      verdict, the court may set aside the verdict and enter an
      acquittal. If the jury has failed to return a verdict, the court
      may enter a judgment of acquittal.
        (3) No Prior Motion Required. A defendant is not required to
      move for a judgment of acquittal before the court submits the
      case to the jury as a prerequisite for making such a motion after
      jury discharge.

      (d) Conditional Ruling on a Motion for a New Trial.
        (1) Motion for a New Trial. If the court enters a judgment of
      acquittal after a guilty verdict, the court must also
      conditionally determine whether any motion for a new trial should
      be granted if the judgment of acquittal is later vacated or
      reversed. The court must specify the reasons for that
      determination.
        (2) Finality. The court's order conditionally granting a motion
      for a new trial does not affect the finality of the judgment of
      acquittal.
        (3) Appeal.
          (A) Grant of a Motion for a New Trial. If the court
        conditionally grants a motion for a new trial and an appellate
        court later reverses the judgment of acquittal, the trial court
        must proceed with the new trial unless the appellate court
        orders otherwise.
          (B) Denial of a Motion for a New Trial. If the court
        conditionally denies a motion for a new trial, an appellee may
        assert that the denial was erroneous. If the appellate court
        later reverses the judgment of acquittal, the trial court must
        proceed as the appellate court directs.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Pub. L. 99-646, Sec.
    54(a), Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3607; Apr. 29, 1994, eff. Dec. 1,
    1994; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1,
    2005; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. The purpose of changing the name of a
    motion for a directed verdict to a motion for judgment of acquittal
    is to make the nomenclature accord with the realities. The change
    of nomenclature, however, does not modify the nature of the motion
    or enlarge the scope of matters that may be considered.
      2. The second sentence is patterned on New York Code of Criminal
    Procedure, sec. 410.
      3. The purpose of the third sentence is to remove the doubt
    existing in a few jurisdictions on the question whether the
    defendant is deemed to have rested his case if he moves for a
    directed verdict at the close of the prosecution's case. The
    purpose of the rule is expressly to preserve the right of the
    defendant to offer evidence in his own behalf, if such motion is
    denied. This is a restatement of the prevailing practice, and is
    also in accord with the practice prescribed for civil cases by Rule
    50(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is in substance similar to
    Rule 50(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix, and permits the court to render judgment for the
    defendant notwithstanding a verdict of guilty. Some Federal courts
    have recognized and approved the use of a judgment non obstante
    veredicto for the defendant in a criminal case, Ex parte United
    States, 101 F.2d 870 (C.C.A. 7th), affirmed by an equally divided
    court, United States v. Stone, 308 U.S. 519. The rule sanctions
    this practice.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). - A minor change has been made in the caption.
      Subdivision (b). - The last three sentences are deleted with the
    matters formerly covered by them transferred to the new subdivision
    (c).
      Subdivision (c). - The new subdivision makes several changes in
    the former procedure. A motion for judgment of acquittal may be
    made after discharge of the jury whether or not a motion was made
    before submission to the jury. No legitimate interest of the
    government is intended to be prejudiced by permitting the court to
    direct an acquittal on a post-verdict motion. The constitutional
    requirement of a jury trial in criminal cases is primarily a right
    accorded to the defendant. Cf. Adams v. United States, ex rel.
    McCann, 317 U.S. 269 (1942); Singer v. United States, 380 U.S. 24
    (1965); Note, 65 Yale L.J. 1032 (1956).
      The time in which the motion may be made has been changed to 7
    days in accordance with the amendment to Rule 45(a) which by
    excluding Saturday from the days to be counted when the period of
    time is less than 7 days would make 7 days the normal time for a
    motion required to be made in 5 days. Also the court is authorized
    to extend the time as is provided for motions for new trial (Rule
    33) and in arrest of judgment (Rule 34).
      References in the original rule to the motion for a new trial as
    an alternate to the motion for judgment of acquittal and to the
    power of the court to order a new trial have been eliminated.
    Motions for new trial are adequately covered in Rule 33. Also the
    original wording is subject to the interpretation that a motion for
    judgment of acquittal gives the court power to order a new trial
    even though the defendant does not wish a new trial and has not
    asked for one.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1994 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment permits the reservation of a motion for a judgment
    of acquittal made at the close of the government's case in the the
    same manner as the rule now permits for motions made at the close
    of all of the evidence. Although the rule as written did not permit
    the court to reserve such motions made at the end of the
    government's case, trial courts on occasion have nonetheless
    reserved ruling. See, e.g., United States v. Bruno, 873 F.2d 555
    (2d Cir.), cert. denied, 110 S.Ct. 125 (1989); United States v.
    Reifsteck, 841 F.2d 701 (6th Cir. 1988). While the amendment will
    not affect a large number of cases, it should remove the dilemma in
    those close cases in which the court would feel pressured into
    making an immediate, and possibly erroneous, decision or violating
    the rule as presently written by reserving its ruling on the
    motion.
      The amendment also permits the trial court to balance the
    defendant's interest in an immediate resolution of the motion
    against the interest of the government in proceeding to a verdict
    thereby preserving its right to appeal in the event a verdict of
    guilty is returned but is then set aside by the granting of a
    judgment of acquittal. Under the double jeopardy clause the
    government may appeal the granting of a motion for judgment of
    acquittal only if there would be no necessity for another trial,
    i.e., only where the jury has returned a verdict of guilty. United
    States v. Martin Linen Supply Co., 430 U.S. 564 (1977). Thus, the
    government's right to appeal a Rule 29 motion is only preserved
    where the ruling is reserved until after the verdict.
      In addressing the issue of preserving the government's right to
    appeal and at the same time recognizing double jeopardy concerns,
    the Supreme Court observed:
      We should point out that it is entirely possible for a trial
      court to reconcile the public interest in the Government's right
      to appeal from an erroneous conclusion of law with the
      defendant's interest in avoiding a second prosecution. In United
      States v. Wilson, 420 U.S. 332 (1975), the court permitted the
      case to go to the jury, which returned a verdict of guilty, but
      it subsequently dismissed the indictment for preindictment delay
      on the basis of evidence adduced at trial. Most recently in
      United States v. Ceccolini, 435 U.S. 268 (1978), we described
      similar action with approval: 'The District Court had sensibly
      made its finding on the factual question of guilt or innocence,
      and then ruled on the motion to suppress; a reversal of these
      rulings would require no further proceeding in the District
      Court, but merely a reinstatement of the finding of guilt.' Id.
      at 271.
    United States v. Scott, 437 U.S. 82, 100 n. 13 (1978). By analogy,
    reserving a ruling on a motion for judgment of acquittal strikes
    the same balance as that reflected by the Supreme Court in Scott.
      Reserving a ruling on a motion made at the end of the
    government's case does pose problems, however, where the defense
    decides to present evidence and run the risk that such evidence
    will support the government's case. To address that problem, the
    amendment provides that the trial court is to consider only the
    evidence submitted at the time of the motion in making its ruling,
    whenever made. And in reviewing a trial court's ruling, the
    appellate court would be similarly limited.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 29 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      In Rule 29(a), the first sentence abolishing "directed verdicts"
    has been deleted because it is unnecessary. The rule continues to
    recognize that a judge may sua sponte enter a judgment of
    acquittal.
      Rule 29(c)(1) addresses the issue of the timing of a motion for
    judgment of acquittal. The amended rule now includes language that
    the motion must be made within 7 days after a guilty verdict or
    after the judge discharges the jury, whichever occurs later. That
    change reflects the fact that in a capital case or in a case
    involving criminal forfeiture, for example, the jury may not be
    discharged until it has completed its sentencing duties. The court
    may still set another time for the defendant to make or renew the
    motion, if it does so within the 7-day period.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 29(c) has been amended to remove the requirement that the
    court must act within seven days after a guilty verdict or after
    the court discharges the jury, if it sets another time for filing a
    motion for a judgment of acquittal. This amendment parallels
    similar changes to Rules 33 and 34. Further, a conforming amendment
    has been made to Rule 45(b)(2).
      Currently, Rule 29(c) requires the defendant to move for a
    judgment of acquittal within seven days of the guilty verdict, or
    after the court discharges the jury, whichever occurs later, or
    some other time set by the court in an order issued within that
    same seven-day period. Similar provisions exist in Rules 33 and 34.
    Courts have held that the seven-day rule is jurisdictional. Thus,
    if a defendant files a request for an extension of time to file a
    motion for a judgment of acquittal within the seven-day period, the
    court must rule on that motion or request within the same seven-day
    period. If for some reason the court does not rule on the request
    within the seven days, it loses jurisdiction to act on the
    underlying substantive motion. See, e.g., United States v. Smith,
    331 U.S. 469, 473-474 (1947) (rejecting argument that trial court
    had power to grant new trial on its own motion after expiration of
    time in Rule 33); United States v. Marquez, 291 F.3d 23, 27-28
    (D.C. Cir. 2002) (citing language of Rule 33, and holding that
    "district court forfeited the power to act when it failed to . . .
    fix a new time for filing a motion for a new trial within seven
    days of the verdict").
      Assuming that the current rule was intended to promote finality,
    there is nothing to prevent the court from granting a significant
    extension of time, so long as it does so within the seven-day
    period. Thus, the Committee believed that the rule should be
    amended to be consistent with all of the other timing requirements
    in the rules, which do not force the court to act on a motion to
    extend the time for filing within a particular period of time or
    lose jurisdiction to do so.
      Accordingly, the amendment deletes the language regarding the
    court's acting within seven days to set the time for filing. Read
    in conjunction with the conforming amendment to Rule 45(b), the
    defendant is still required to file a timely motion for a judgment
    of acquittal under Rule 29 within the seven-day period specified.
    The defendant may, under Rule 45, seek an extension of time to file
    the underlying motion as long as the defendant does so within the
    seven-day period. But the court itself is not required to act on
    that motion within any particular time. Further, under Rule
    45(b)(1)(B), if for some reason the defendant fails to file the
    underlying motion within the specified time, the court may
    nonetheless consider that untimely motion if the court determines
    that the failure to file it on time was the result of excusable
    neglect.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    substantive changes to Rule 29 following publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Former Rules 29, 33, and 34 adopted 7-day periods for their
    respective motions. This period has been expanded to 14 days.
    Experience has proved that in many cases it is not possible to
    prepare a satisfactory motion in 7 days, even under the former rule
    that excluded intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
    This led to frequent requests for continuances, and the filing of
    bare bones motions that required later supplementation. The 14-day
    period - including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
    holidays as provided by Rule 45(a) - sets a more realistic time for
    the filing of these motions.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1986 - Subd. (d). Pub. L. 99-646 added subd. (d).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1986 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 54(b) of Pub. L. 99-646 provided that: "The amendments
    made by this section [amending this rule] shall take effect 30 days
    after the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 10, 1986]."

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 29.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 29.1. Closing Argument

-STATUTE-
      Closing arguments proceed in the following order:
        (a) the government argues;
        (b) the defense argues; and
        (c) the government rebuts.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; amended Apr. 29, 2002,
    eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974            
      This rule is designed to control the order of closing argument.
    It reflects the Advisory Committee's view that it is desirable to
    have a uniform federal practice. The rule is drafted in the view
    that fair and effective administration of justice is best served if
    the defendant knows the arguments actually made by the prosecution
    in behalf of conviction before the defendant is faced with the
    decision whether to reply and what to reply.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court, Rule 29.1 is a new
    rule that was added to regulate closing arguments. It prescribes
    that the government shall make its closing argument and then the
    defendant shall make his. After the defendant has argued, the
    government is entitled to reply in rebuttal.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee endorses and adopts this
    proposed rule in its entirety. The Committee believes that as the
    Advisory Committee Note has stated, fair and effective
    administration of justice is best served if the defendant knows the
    arguments actually made by the prosecution in behalf of conviction
    before the defendant is faced with the decision whether to reply
    and what to reply. Rule 29.1 does not specifically address itself
    to what happens if the prosecution waives its initial closing
    argument. The Committee is of the view that the prosecutor, when he
    waives his initial closing argument, also waives his rebuttal. [See
    the remarks of Senior United States Circuit Judge J. Edward Lumbard
    in Hearings II, at 207.]

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 29.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

                              EFFECTIVE DATE                          
      This rule effective Dec. 1, 1975, see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64,
    set out as a note under rule 4 of these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 30                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 30. Jury Instructions

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. Any party may request in writing that the court
    instruct the jury on the law as specified in the request. The
    request must be made at the close of the evidence or at any earlier
    time that the court reasonably sets. When the request is made, the
    requesting party must furnish a copy to every other party.
      (b) Ruling on a Request. The court must inform the parties before
    closing arguments how it intends to rule on the requested
    instructions.
      (c) Time for Giving Instructions. The court may instruct the jury
    before or after the arguments are completed, or at both times.
      (d) Objections to Instructions. A party who objects to any
    portion of the instructions or to a failure to give a requested
    instruction must inform the court of the specific objection and the
    grounds for the objection before the jury retires to deliberate. An
    opportunity must be given to object out of the jury's hearing and,
    on request, out of the jury's presence. Failure to object in
    accordance with this rule precludes appellate review, except as
    permitted under Rule 52(b).

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 25, 1988, eff. Aug. 1, 1988; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule corresponds to Rule 51 of the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix], the second sentence alone being
    new. It seemed appropriate that on a point such as instructions to
    juries there should be no difference in procedure between civil and
    criminal cases.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment requires the court, on request of any party, to
    require the jury to withdraw in order to permit full argument of
    objections to instructions.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      In its current form, Rule 30 requires that the court instruct the
    jury after the arguments of counsel. In some districts, usually
    where the state practice is otherwise, the parties prefer to
    stipulate to instruction before closing arguments. The purpose of
    the amendment is to give the court discretion to instruct the jury
    before or after closing arguments, or at both times. The amendment
    will permit courts to continue instructing the jury after arguments
    as Rule 30 had previously required. It will also permit courts to
    instruct before arguments in order to give the parties an
    opportunity to argue to the jury in light of the exact language
    used by the court. See generally Raymond, Merits and Demerits of
    the Missouri System in Instructing Juries, 5 St. Louis U.L.J. 317
    (1959). Finally, the amendment plainly indicates that the court may
    instruct both before and after arguments, which assures that the
    court retains power to remedy omissions in pre-argument
    instructions or to add instructions necessitated by the arguments.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1988 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 30 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Rule 30(a) reflects a change in the timing of requests for
    instructions. As currently written, the trial court may not direct
    the parties to file such requests before trial without violating
    Rules 30 and 57. While the amendment falls short of requiring all
    requests to be made before trial in all cases, the amendment
    permits a court to do so in a particular case or as a matter of
    local practice under local rules promulgated under Rule 57. The
    rule does not preclude the practice of permitting the parties to
    supplement their requested instructions during the trial.
      Rule 30(d) clarifies what, if anything, counsel must do to
    preserve a claim of error regarding an instruction or failure to
    instruct. The rule retains the requirement of a contemporaneous and
    specific objection (before the jury retires to deliberate). As the
    Supreme Court recognized in Jones v. United States, 527 U.S. 373
    (1999), read literally, current Rule 30 could be construed to bar
    any appellate review absent a timely objection when in fact a court
    may conduct a limited review under a plain error standard. The
    amendment does not address the issue of whether objections to the
    instructions must be renewed after the instructions are given, in
    order to preserve a claim of error. No change in practice is
    intended by the amendment.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 31                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VI. TRIAL

-HEAD-
    Rule 31. Jury Verdict

-STATUTE-
      (a) Return. The jury must return its verdict to a judge in open
    court. The verdict must be unanimous.
      (b) Partial Verdicts, Mistrial, and Retrial.
        (1) Multiple Defendants. If there are multiple defendants, the
      jury may return a verdict at any time during its deliberations as
      to any defendant about whom it has agreed.
        (2) Multiple Counts. If the jury cannot agree on all counts as
      to any defendant, the jury may return a verdict on those counts
      on which it has agreed.
        (3) Mistrial and Retrial. If the jury cannot agree on a verdict
      on one or more counts, the court may declare a mistrial on those
      counts. The government may retry any defendant on any count on
      which the jury could not agree.

      (c) Lesser Offense or Attempt. A defendant may be found guilty of
    any of the following:
        (1) an offense necessarily included in the offense charged;
        (2) an attempt to commit the offense charged; or
        (3) an attempt to commit an offense necessarily included in the
      offense charged, if the attempt is an offense in its own right.

      (d) Jury Poll. After a verdict is returned but before the jury is
    discharged, the court must on a party's request, or may on its own,
    poll the jurors individually. If the poll reveals a lack of
    unanimity, the court may direct the jury to deliberate further or
    may declare a mistrial and discharge the jury.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 24, 1998, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 17, 2000, eff. Dec. 1, 2000; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law and practice. It does not embody any regulation of sealed
    verdicts, it being contemplated that this matter would be governed
    by local practice in the various district courts. The rule does not
    affect the existing statutes relating to qualified verdicts in
    cases in which capital punishment may be imposed, 18 U.S.C. 408a
    [now 1201] (Kidnapped persons); sec. 412a [now 1992] (Wrecking
    trains); sec. 567 [now 1111] (Verdicts; qualified verdicts).
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 566 (Verdicts; several joint defendants).
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 565 (Verdicts; less offense than charged).
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law and practice, Mackett v. United States, 90 F.2d 462, 465
    (C.C.A. 7th); Bruce v. Chestnut Farms Chevy Chase Dairy, 126 F.2d
    224, App.D.C.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (e) is new. It is intended to provide procedural
    implementation of the recently enacted criminal forfeiture
    provision of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, Title IX,
    Sec. 1963, and the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
    Act of 1970, Title II, Sec. 408(a)(2).
      The assumption of the draft is that the amount of the interest or
    property subject to criminal forfeiture is an element of the
    offense to be alleged and proved. See Advisory Committee Note to
    rule 7(c)(2).
      Although special verdict provisions are rare in criminal cases,
    they are not unknown. See United States v. Spock, 416 F. 2d 165
    (1st Cir. 1969), especially footnote 41 where authorities are
    listed.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      The right of a party to have the jury polled is an "undoubted
    right." Humphries v. District of Columbia, 174 U.S. 190, 194
    (1899). Its purpose is to determine with certainty that "each of
    the jurors approves of the verdict as returned; that no one has
    been coerced or induced to sign a verdict to which he does not
    fully assent." Id.
      Currently, Rule 31(d) is silent on the precise method of polling
    the jury. Thus, a court in its discretion may conduct the poll
    collectively or individually. As one court has noted, although the
    prevailing view is that the method used is a matter within the
    discretion of the trial court, United States v. Miller, 59 F.3d
    417, 420 (3d Cir. 1995) (citing cases), the preference, nonetheless
    of the appellate and trial courts, seems to favor individual
    polling. Id. (citing cases). That is the position taken in the
    American Bar Association Standards for Criminal Justice Sec. 15-
    4.5. Those sources favoring individual polling observe that
    conducting a poll of the jurors collectively saves little time and
    does not always adequately insure that an individual juror who has
    been forced to join the majority during deliberations will voice
    dissent from a collective response. On the other hand, an advantage
    to individual polling is the "likelihood that it will discourage
    post-trial efforts to challenge the verdict on allegations of
    coercion on the part of some of the jurors." Miller, Id. at 420
    (citing Audette v. Isaksen Fishing Corp., 789 F.2d 956, 961, n. 6
    (1st Cir. 1986)).
      The Committee is persuaded by the authorities and practice that
    there are advantages of conducting an individual poll of the
    jurors. Thus, the rule requires that the jurors be polled
    individually when a polling is requested, or when polling is
    directed sua sponte by the court. The amendment, however, leaves to
    the court the discretion as to whether to conduct a separate poll
    for each defendant, each count of the indictment or complaint, or
    on other issues.
      Changes Made to Rule 31 After Publication ("GAP Report"). The
    Committee changed the rule to require that any polling of the jury
    must be done before the jury is discharged and it incorporated
    suggested style changes submitted by the Style Subcommittee.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2000 AMENDMENT             
      The rule is amended to reflect the creation of new Rule 32.2,
    which now governs criminal forfeiture procedures.
      GAP Report - Rule 31. The Committee made no changes to the
    published draft amendment to Rule 31.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 31 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Rule 31(b) has been amended to clarify that a jury may return
    partial verdicts, either as to multiple defendants or multiple
    counts, or both. See, e.g., United States v. Cunningham, 145 F.3d
    1385, 1388-90 (D.C. Cir. 1998) (partial verdicts on multiple
    defendants and counts). No change in practice is intended.

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION
           PROCEDURES                                      01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
                   TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES               

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 32                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 32. Sentencing and Judgment

-STATUTE-
      (a) [Reserved.]
      (b) Time of Sentencing.
        (1) In General. The court must impose sentence without
      unnecessary delay.
        (2) Changing Time Limits. The court may, for good cause, change
      any time limits prescribed in this rule.

      (c) Presentence Investigation.
        (1) Required Investigation.
          (A) In General. The probation officer must conduct a
        presentence investigation and submit a report to the court
        before it imposes sentence unless:
            (i) 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3593(c) or another statute requires
          otherwise; or
            (ii) the court finds that the information in the record
          enables it to meaningfully exercise its sentencing authority
          under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3553, and the court explains its finding
          on the record.

          (B) Restitution. If the law permits restitution, the
        probation officer must conduct an investigation and submit a
        report that contains sufficient information for the court to
        order restitution.

        (2) Interviewing the Defendant. The probation officer who
      interviews a defendant as part of a presentence investigation
      must, on request, give the defendant's attorney notice and a
      reasonable opportunity to attend the interview.

      (d) Presentence Report.
        (1) Applying the Advisory Sentencing Guidelines. The
      presentence report must:
          (A) identify all applicable guidelines and policy statements
        of the Sentencing Commission;
          (B) calculate the defendant's offense level and criminal
        history category;
          (C) state the resulting sentencing range and kinds of
        sentences available;
          (D) identify any factor relevant to:
            (i) the appropriate kind of sentence, or
            (ii) the appropriate sentence within the applicable
          sentencing range; and

          (E) identify any basis for departing from the applicable
        sentencing range.

        (2) Additional Information. The presentence report must also
      contain the following:
          (A) the defendant's history and characteristics, including:
            (i) any prior criminal record;
            (ii) the defendant's financial condition; and
            (iii) any circumstances affecting the defendant's behavior
          that may be helpful in imposing sentence or in correctional
          treatment;

          (B) information that assesses any financial, social,
        psychological, and medical impact on any victim;
          (C) when appropriate, the nature and extent of nonprison
        programs and resources available to the defendant;
          (D) when the law provides for restitution, information
        sufficient for a restitution order;
          (E) if the court orders a study under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3552(b),
        any resulting report and recommendation;
          (F) a statement of whether the government seeks forfeiture
        under Rule 32.2 and any other law; and
          (G) any other information that the court requires, including
        information relevant to the factors under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
        3553(a).

        (3) Exclusions. The presentence report must exclude the
      following:
          (A) any diagnoses that, if disclosed, might seriously disrupt
        a rehabilitation program;
          (B) any sources of information obtained upon a promise of
        confidentiality; and
          (C) any other information that, if disclosed, might result in
        physical or other harm to the defendant or others.

      (e) Disclosing the Report and Recommendation.
        (1) Time to Disclose. Unless the defendant has consented in
      writing, the probation officer must not submit a presentence
      report to the court or disclose its contents to anyone until the
      defendant has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere, or has been
      found guilty.
        (2) Minimum Required Notice. The probation officer must give
      the presentence report to the defendant, the defendant's
      attorney, and an attorney for the government at least 35 days
      before sentencing unless the defendant waives this minimum
      period.
        (3) Sentence Recommendation. By local rule or by order in a
      case, the court may direct the probation officer not to disclose
      to anyone other than the court the officer's recommendation on
      the sentence.

      (f) Objecting to the Report.
        (1) Time to Object. Within 14 days after receiving the
      presentence report, the parties must state in writing any
      objections, including objections to material information,
      sentencing guideline ranges, and policy statements contained in
      or omitted from the report.
        (2) Serving Objections. An objecting party must provide a copy
      of its objections to the opposing party and to the probation
      officer.
        (3) Action on Objections. After receiving objections, the
      probation officer may meet with the parties to discuss the
      objections. The probation officer may then investigate further
      and revise the presentence report as appropriate.

      (g) Submitting the Report. At least 7 days before sentencing, the
    probation officer must submit to the court and to the parties the
    presentence report and an addendum containing any unresolved
    objections, the grounds for those objections, and the probation
    officer's comments on them.
      (h) Notice of Possible Departure from Sentencing Guidelines.
    Before the court may depart from the applicable sentencing range on
    a ground not identified for departure either in the presentence
    report or in a party's prehearing submission, the court must give
    the parties reasonable notice that it is contemplating such a
    departure. The notice must specify any ground on which the court is
    contemplating a departure.
      (i) Sentencing.
        (1) In General. At sentencing, the court:
          (A) must verify that the defendant and the defendant's
        attorney have read and discussed the presentence report and any
        addendum to the report;
          (B) must give to the defendant and an attorney for the
        government a written summary of - or summarize in camera - any
        information excluded from the presentence report under Rule
        32(d)(3) on which the court will rely in sentencing, and give
        them a reasonable opportunity to comment on that information;
          (C) must allow the parties' attorneys to comment on the
        probation officer's determinations and other matters relating
        to an appropriate sentence; and
          (D) may, for good cause, allow a party to make a new
        objection at any time before sentence is imposed.

        (2) Introducing Evidence; Producing a Statement. The court may
      permit the parties to introduce evidence on the objections. If a
      witness testifies at sentencing, Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f)
      applies. If a party fails to comply with a Rule 26.2 order to
      produce a witness's statement, the court must not consider that
      witness's testimony.
        (3) Court Determinations. At sentencing, the court:
          (A) may accept any undisputed portion of the presentence
        report as a finding of fact;
          (B) must - for any disputed portion of the presentence report
        or other controverted matter - rule on the dispute or determine
        that a ruling is unnecessary either because the matter will not
        affect sentencing, or because the court will not consider the
        matter in sentencing; and
          (C) must append a copy of the court's determinations under
        this rule to any copy of the presentence report made available
        to the Bureau of Prisons.

        (4) Opportunity to Speak.
          (A) By a Party. Before imposing sentence, the court must:
            (i) provide the defendant's attorney an opportunity to
          speak on the defendant's behalf;
            (ii) address the defendant personally in order to permit
          the defendant to speak or present any information to mitigate
          the sentence; and
            (iii) provide an attorney for the government an opportunity
          to speak equivalent to that of the defendant's attorney.

          (B) By a Victim. Before imposing sentence, the court must
        address any victim of the crime who is present at sentencing
        and must permit the victim to be reasonably heard.
          (C) In Camera Proceedings. Upon a party's motion and for good
        cause, the court may hear in camera any statement made under
        Rule 32(i)(4).

      (j) Defendant's Right to Appeal.
        (1) Advice of a Right to Appeal.
          (A) Appealing a Conviction. If the defendant pleaded not
        guilty and was convicted, after sentencing the court must
        advise the defendant of the right to appeal the conviction.
          (B) Appealing a Sentence. After sentencing - regardless of
        the defendant's plea - the court must advise the defendant of
        any right to appeal the sentence.
          (C) Appeal Costs. The court must advise a defendant who is
        unable to pay appeal costs of the right to ask for permission
        to appeal in forma pauperis.

        (2)Clerk's Filing of Notice. If the defendant so requests, the
      clerk must immediately prepare and file a notice of appeal on the
      defendant's behalf.

      (k) Judgment.
        (1) In General. In the judgment of conviction, the court must
      set forth the plea, the jury verdict or the court's findings, the
      adjudication, and the sentence. If the defendant is found not
      guilty or is otherwise entitled to be discharged, the court must
      so order. The judge must sign the judgment, and the clerk must
      enter it.
        (2) Criminal Forfeiture. Forfeiture procedures are governed by
      Rule 32.2.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec.
    3(31)-(34), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 376; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Aug.
    1, 1979, and Dec. 1, 1980; Pub. L. 97-291, Sec. 3, Oct. 12, 1982,
    96 Stat. 1249; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1, 1983; Pub. L. 98-473,
    title II, Sec. 215(a), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2014; Pub. L. 99-
    646, Sec. 25(a), Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3597; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; Apr. 30, 1991, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 1994, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1994; Pub. L. 103-322, title XXIII, Sec. 230101(b), Sept.
    13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2078; Apr. 23, 1996, eff. Dec. 1, 1996; Pub. L.
    104-132, title II, Sec. 207(a), Apr. 24, 1996, 110 Stat. 1236; Apr.
    17, 2000, eff. Dec. 1, 2000; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr.
    30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007; Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008; Mar.
    26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing procedure. Rule I of the Criminal Appeals Rules of
    1933, 292 U.S. 661. See Rule 43 relating to the presence of the
    defendant.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing procedure. Rule I of the Criminal Appeals Rules of
    1933, 292 U.S. 661.
      Note to Subdivision (c). The purpose of this provision is to
    encourage and broaden the use of presentence investigations, which
    are now being utilized to good advantage in many cases. See, "The
    Presentence Investigation" published by Administrative Office of
    the United States Courts, Division of Probation.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule modifies existing practice by
    abrogating the ten-day limitation on a motion for leave to withdraw
    a plea of guilty. See Rule II (4) of the Criminal Appeals Rules of
    1933, 292 U.S. 661.
      Note to Subdivision (e). See 18 U.S.C. 724 et seq. [now 3651 et
    seq.].

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a)(1). - The amendment writes into the rule the
    holding of the Supreme Court that the court before imposing
    sentence must afford an opportunity to the defendant personally to
    speak in his own behalf. See Green v. United States, 365 U.S. 301
    (1961); Hill v. United States, 368 U.S. 424 (1962). The amendment
    also provides an opportunity for counsel to speak on behalf of the
    defendant.
      Subdivision (a)(2). - This amendment is a substantial revision
    and a relocation of the provision originally found in Rule
    37(a)(2): "When a court after trial imposes sentence upon a
    defendant not represented by counsel, the defendant shall be
    advised of his right to appeal and if he so requests, the clerk
    shall prepare and file forthwith a notice of appeal on behalf of
    the defendant." The court is required to advise the defendant of
    his right to appeal in all cases which have gone to trial after
    plea of not guilty because situations arise in which a defendant
    represented by counsel at the trial is not adequately advised by
    such counsel of his right to appeal. Trial counsel may not regard
    his responsibility as extending beyond the time of imposition of
    sentence. The defendant may be removed from the courtroom
    immediately upon sentence and held in custody under circumstances
    which make it difficult for counsel to advise him. See, e.g.,
    Hodges v. United States, 368 U.S. 139 (1961). Because indigent
    defendants are most likely to be without effective assistance of
    counsel at this point in the proceedings, it is also provided that
    defendants be notified of the right of a person without funds to
    apply for leave to appeal in forma pauperis. The provision is added
    here because this rule seems the most appropriate place to set
    forth a procedure to be followed by the court at the time of
    sentencing.
      Subdivision (c)(2). - It is not a denial of due process of law
    for a court in sentencing to rely on a report of a presentence
    investigation without disclosing such report to the defendant or
    giving him an opportunity to rebut it. Williams v. New York, 337
    U.S. 241 (1949); Williams v. Oklahoma, 358 U.S. 576 (1959).
    However, the question whether as a matter of policy the defendant
    should be accorded some opportunity to see and refute allegations
    made in such reports has been the subject of heated controversy.
    For arguments favoring disclosure, see Tappan, Crime, Justice, and
    Correction, 558 (1960); Model Penal Code, 54-55 (Tent. Draft No. 2,
    1954); Thomsen, Confidentiality of the Presentence Report: A Middle
    Position, 28 Fed.Prob., March 1964, p. 8; Wyzanski, A Trial Judge's
    Freedom and Responsibility, 65 Harv.L.Rev. 1281, 1291-2 (1952);
    Note, Employment of Social Investigation Reports in Criminal and
    Juvenile Proceedings, 58 Colum.L.Rev. 702 (1958); cf. Kadish, The
    Advocate and the Expert: Counsel in the Peno-Correctional Process,
    45 Minn.L.Rev. 803, 806, (1961). For arguments opposing disclosure,
    see Barnett and Gronewold, Confidentiality of the Presentence
    Report, 26 Fed.Prob. March 1962, p. 26; Judicial Conference
    Committee on Administration of the Probation System, Judicial
    Opinion on Proposed Change in Rule 32(c) of the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure - a Survey (1964); Keve, The Probation Officer
    Investigates, 6-15 (1960); Parsons, The Presentence Investigation
    Report Must be Preserved as a Confidential Document, 28 Fed.Prob.
    March 1964, p. 3; Sharp, The Confidential Nature of Presentence
    Reports, 5 Cath.U.L.Rev. 127 (1955); Wilson, A New Arena is
    Emerging to Test the Confidentiality of Presentence Reports, 25
    Fed.Prob. Dec. 1961, p. 6; Federal Judge's Views on Probation
    Practices, 24 Fed.Prob. March 1960, p. 10.
      In a few jurisdictions the defendant is given a right of access
    to the presentence report. In England and California a copy of the
    report is given to the defendant in every case. English Criminal
    Justice Act of 1948, 11 & 12 Geo. 6, c. 58, Sec. 43; Cal.Pen.C.
    Sec. 1203. In Alabama the defendant has a right to inspect the
    report. Ala. Code, Title 42, Sec. 23. In Ohio and Virginia the
    probation officer reports in open court and the defendant is given
    the right to examine him on his report. Ohio Rev. Code, Sec.
    2947.06; Va. Code, Sec. 53-278.1. The Minnesota Criminal Code of
    1963, Sec. 609.115(4), provides that any presentence report "shall
    be open for inspection by the prosecuting attorney and the
    defendant's attorney prior to sentence and on the request of either
    of them a summary hearing in chambers shall be held on any matter
    brought in issue, but confidential sources of information shall not
    be disclosed unless the court otherwise directs." Cf. Model Penal
    Code Sec. 7.07(5) (P.O.D. 1962): "Before imposing sentence, the
    Court shall advise the defendant or his counsel of the factual
    contents and the conclusions of any presentence investigation or
    psychiatric examination and afford fair opportunity, if the
    defendant so requests, to controvert them. The sources of
    confidential information need not, however, be disclosed."
      Practice in the federal courts is mixed, with a substantial
    minority of judges permitting disclosure while most deny it. See
    the recent survey prepared for the Judicial Conference of the
    District of Columbia by the Junior Bar Section of the Bar
    Association of the District of Columbia, reported in Conference
    Papers on Discovery in Federal Criminal Cases, 33 F.R.D. 101, 125-
    127 (1963). See also Gronewold, Presentence Investigation
    Practices in the Federal Probation System, Fed.Prob. Sept. 1958,
    pp. 27, 31. For divergent judicial opinions see Smith v. United
    States, 223 F.2d 750, 754 (5th Cir. 1955) (supporting disclosure);
    United States v. Durham, 181 F.Supp. 503 (D.D.C. 1960) (supporting
    secrecy).
      Substantial objections to compelling disclosure in every case
    have been advanced by federal judges, including many who in
    practice often disclose all or parts of presentence reports. See
    Judicial Conference Committee on the Administration of the
    Probation System, Judicial Opinion on Proposed Change in Rule 32(c)
    of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure - A Survey (1964).
    Hence, the amendment goes no further than to make it clear that
    courts may disclose all or part of the presentence report to the
    defendant or to his counsel. It is hoped that courts will make
    increasing use of their discretion to disclose so that defendants
    generally may be given full opportunity to rebut or explain facts
    in presentence reports which will be material factors in
    determining sentences. For a description of such a practice in one
    district, see Thomsen, Confidentiality of the Presentence Report: A
    Middle Position, 28 Fed.Prob., March 1964, p. 8.
      It is also provided that any material disclosed to the defendant
    or his counsel shall be disclosed to the attorney for the
    government. Such disclosure will permit the government to
    participate in the resolution of any factual questions raised by
    the defendant.
      Subdivision (f). - This new subdivision writes into the rule the
    procedure which the cases have derived from the provision in 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3653 that a person arrested for violation of probation
    "shall be taken before the court" and that thereupon the court may
    revoke the probation. See Escoe v. Zerbst, 295 U.S. 490 (1935);
    Brown v. United States, 236 F.2d 253 (9th Cir. 1956) certiorari
    denied 356 U.S. 922 (1958). Compare Model Penal Code Sec. 301.4
    (P.O.D. 1962); Hink, The Application of Constitutional Standards of
    Protection to Probation, 29 U.Chi.L.Rev. 483 (1962).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (b)(2) is new. It is intended to provide procedural
    implementation of the recently enacted criminal forfeiture
    provisions of the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970, Title IX,
    Sec. 1963, and the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control
    Act of 1970, Title II, Sec. 408(a)(2).
      18 U.S.C. Sec. 1963(c) provides for property seizure and
    disposition. In part it states:
      (c) Upon conviction of a person under this section, the court
    shall authorize the Attorney General to seize all property or other
    interest declared forfeited under this section upon such terms and
    conditions as the court shall deem proper.
      Although not specifically provided for in the Comprehensive Drug
    Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, the provision of Title
    II, Sec. 408(a)(2) forfeiting "profits" or "interest" will need to
    be implemented procedurally, and therefore new rule 32(b)(2) will
    be applicable also to that legislation.
      For a brief discussion of the procedural implications of a
    criminal forfeiture, see Advisory Committee Note to rule 7(c)(2).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a)(1) is amended by deleting the reference to
    commitment or release pending sentencing. This issue is dealt with
    explicitly in the proposed revision of rule 46(c).
      Subdivision (a)(2) is amended to make clear that there is no duty
    on the court to advise the defendant of the right to appeal after
    sentence is imposed following a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
      To require the court to advise the defendant of a right to appeal
    after a plea of guilty, accepted pursuant to the increasingly
    stringent requirements of rule 11, is likely to be confusing to the
    defendant. See American Bar Association Standards Relating to
    Criminal Appeals Sec. 2.1(b) (Approved Draft, 1970), limiting the
    court's duty to advice to "contested cases."
      The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that such advice,
    following a sentence imposed after a plea of guilty, will merely
    tend to build false hopes and encourage frivolous appeals, with the
    attendant expense to the defendant or the taxpayers.
      Former rule 32(a)(2) imposes a duty only upon conviction after
    "trial on a plea of not guilty." The few federal cases dealing with
    the question have interpreted rule 32(a)(2) to say that the court
    has no duty to advise defendant of his right to appeal after
    conviction following a guilty plea. Burton v. United States, 307
    F.Supp. 448, 450 (D.Ariz. 1970); Alaway v. United States, 280
    F.Supp. 326, 336 (C.D.Calif. 1968); Crow v. United States, 397 F.2d
    284, 285 (10th Cir. 1968).
      Prior to the 1966 amendment of rule 32, the court's duty was even
    more limited. At that time [rule 37(a)(2)] the court's duty to
    advise was limited to those situations in which sentence was
    imposed after trial upon a not guilty plea of a defendant not
    represented by counsel. 8A J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182;
    32.01[3] (2d ed. Cipes 1969); C. Wright, Federal Practice and
    Procedure: Criminal Sec. 528 (1969); 5 L. Orfield, Criminal
    Procedure Under the Federal Rules Sec. 32:11 (1967).
      With respect to appeals in forma pauperis, see appellate rule 24.
      Subdivision (c)(1) makes clear that a presentence report is
    required except when the court otherwise directs for reasons stated
    of record. The requirement of reasons on the record for not having
    a presentence report is intended to make clear that such a report
    ought to be routinely required except in cases where there is a
    reason for not doing so. The presentence report is of great value
    for correctional purposes and will serve as a valuable aid in
    reviewing sentences to the extent that sentence review may be
    authorized by future rule change. For an analysis of the current
    rule as it relates to the situation in which a presentence
    investigation is required, see C. Wright, Federal Practice and
    Procedure: Criminal Sec. 522 (1969); 8A J. Moore, Federal Practice
    &#182; 32.03[1] (2d ed. Cipes 1969).
      Subdivision (c)(1) is also changed to permit the judge, after
    obtaining defendant's consent, to see the presentence report in
    order to decide whether to accept a plea agreement, and also to
    expedite the imposition of sentence in a case in which the
    defendant has indicated that he may plead guilty or nolo
    contendere.
      Former subdivision (c)(1) provides that "The report shall not be
    submitted to the court * * * unless the defendant has pleaded
    guilty * * *." This precludes a judge from seeing a presentence
    report prior to the acceptance of the plea of guilty. L. Orfield,
    Criminal Procedure Under the Federal Rules Sec. 32:35 (1967); 8A J.
    Moore, Federal Practice &#182; 32.03[2], p. 32-22 (2d ed. Cipes
    1969); C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec.
    523, p. 392 (1969); Gregg v. United States, 394 U.S. 489, 89 S.Ct.
    1134, 22 L.Ed.2d 442 (1969).
      Because many plea agreements will deal with the sentence to be
    imposed, it will be important, under rule 11, for the judge to have
    access to sentencing information as a basis for deciding whether
    the plea agreement is an appropriate one.
      It has been suggested that the problem be dealt with by allowing
    the judge to indicate approval of the plea agreement subject to the
    condition that the information in the presentence report is
    consistent with what he has been told about the case by counsel.
    See American Bar Association, Standards Relating to Pleas of Guilty
    Sec. 3.3 (Approved Draft, 1963); President's Commission on Law
    Enforcement and Administration of Justice. The Challenge of Crime
    in a Free Society 136 (1967).
      Allowing the judge to see the presentence report prior to his
    decision as to whether to accept the plea agreement is, in the view
    of the Advisory Committee, preferable to a conditional acceptance
    of the plea. See Enker, Perspectives on Plea Bargaining, Appendix A
    of President's Commission on Law Enforcement and Administration of
    Justice, Task Force Report: The Courts at 117 (1967). It enables
    the judge to have all of the information available to him at the
    time he is called upon to decide whether or not to accept the plea
    of guilty and thus avoids the necessity of a subsequent appearance
    whenever the information is such that the judge decides to reject
    the plea agreement.
      There is presently authority to have a presentence report
    prepared prior to the acceptance of the plea of guilty. In Gregg v.
    United States, 394 U.S. 489, 491, 89 S.Ct. 1134 22 L.Ed.2d 442
    (1969), the court said that the "language [of rule 32] clearly
    permits the preparation of a presentence report before guilty plea
    or conviction * * *." In footnote 3 the court said:
      The history of the rule confirms this interpretation. The first
    Preliminary Draft of the rule would have required the consent of
    the defendant or his attorney to commence the investigation before
    the determination of guilt. Advisory Committee on Rules of Criminal
    Procedure, Fed.Rules Crim.Proc., Preliminary Draft 130, 133 (1943).
    The Second Preliminary Draft omitted this requirement and imposed
    no limitation on the time when the report could be made and
    submitted to the court. Advisory Committee on Rules of Criminal
    Procedure, Fed.Rules Crim.Proc. Second Preliminary Draft 126-128
    (1944). The third and final draft, which was adopted as Rule 32,
    was evidently a compromise between those who opposed any time
    limitation, and those who preferred that the entire investigation
    be conducted after determination of guilt. See 5 L. Orfield,
    Criminal Procedure Under the Federal Rules Sec. 32.2 (1967).
      Where the judge rejects the plea agreement after seeing the
    presentence report, he should be free to recuse himself from later
    presiding over the trial of the case. This is left to the
    discretion of the judge. There are instances involving prior
    convictions where a judge may have seen a presentence report, yet
    can properly try a case on a plea of not guilty. Webster v. United
    States, 330 F.Supp. 1080 (D.C., 1971). Unlike the situation in
    Gregg v. United States, subdivision (e)(3) provides for disclosure
    of the presentence report to the defendant, and this will enable
    counsel to know whether the information thus made available to the
    judge is likely to be prejudicial. Presently trial judges who
    decide pretrial motions to suppress illegally obtained evidence are
    not, for that reason alone, precluded from presiding at a later
    trial.
      Subdivision (c)(3)(A) requires disclosure of presentence
    information to the defense, exclusive of any recommendation of
    sentence. The court is required to disclose the report to defendant
    or his counsel unless the court is of the opinion that disclosure
    would seriously interfere with rehabilitation, compromise
    confidentiality, or create risk of harm to the defendant or others.
      Any recommendation as to sentence should not be disclosed as it
    may impair the effectiveness of the probation officer if the
    defendant is under supervision on probation or parole.
      The issue of disclosure of presentence information to the defense
    has been the subject of recommendations from the Advisory Committee
    in 1944, 1962, 1964, and 1966. The history is dealt with in
    considerable detail in C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure:
    Criminal Sec. 524 (1969), and 8A J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182;
    32.03[4] (2d ed. Cipes 1969).
      In recent years, three prestigious organizations have recommended
    that the report be disclosed to the defense. See American Bar
    Association, Standards Relating to Sentencing Alternatives and
    Procedures Sec. 4.4 (Approved Draft, 1968); American Law Institute
    Model Penal Code Sec. 7.07(5) (P.O.D. 1962); National Council on
    Crime and Delinquency, Model Sentencing Act Sec. 4 (1963). This is
    also the recommendation of the President's Commission on Law
    Enforcement and Administration of Justice. The Challenge of Crime
    in a Free Society (1967) at p. 145.
      In the absence of compelling reasons for nondisclosure of special
    information, the defendant and his counsel should be permitted to
    examine the entire presentence report.
      The arguments for and against disclosure are well known and are
    effectively set forth in American Bar Association Standards
    Relating to Sentencing Alternatives and Procedures, Sec. 4.4
    Commentary at pp. 214-225 (Approved Draft, 1968). See also Lehrich,
    The Use and Disclosure of Presentence Reports in the United States,
    47 F.R.D. 225 (1969).
      A careful account of existing practices in Detroit, Michigan and
    Milwaukee, Wisconsin is found in R. Dawson, Sentencing (1969).
      Most members of the federal judiciary have, in the past, opposed
    compulsory disclosure. See the view of District Judge Edwin M.
    Stanley, American Bar Association Standards Relating to Sentencing
    Alternatives and Procedures. Appendix A. (Appendix A also contains
    the results of a survey of all federal judges showing that the
    clear majority opposed disclosure.)
      The Advisory Committee is of the view that accuracy of sentencing
    information is important not only to the defendant but also to
    effective correctional treatment of a convicted offender. The best
    way of insuring accuracy is disclosure with an opportunity for the
    defendant and counsel to point out to the court information thought
    by the defense to be inaccurate, incomplete, or otherwise
    misleading. Experience in jurisdictions which require disclosure
    does not lend support to the argument that disclosure will result
    in less complete presentence reports or the argument that
    sentencing procedures will become unnecessarily protracted. It is
    not intended that the probation officer would be subjected to any
    rigorous examination by defense counsel, or that he will even be
    sworn to testify. The proceedings may be very informal in nature
    unless the court orders a full hearing.
      Subdivision (c)(3)(B) provides for situations in which the
    sentencing judge believes that disclosure should not be made under
    the criteria set forth in subdivision (c)(3)(A). He may disclose
    only a summary of that factual information "to be relied on in
    determining sentence." This is similar to the proposal of the
    American Bar Association Standards Relating to Sentencing
    Alternatives and Procedures Sec. 4.4(b) and Commentary at pp. 216-
    224.
      Subdivision (c)(3)(D) provides for the return of disclosed
    presentence reports to insure that they do not become available to
    unauthorized persons. See National Council on Crime and
    Delinquency, Model Sentencing Act Sec. 4 (1963): "Such reports
    shall be part of the record but shall be sealed and opened only on
    order of the court."
      Subdivision (c)(3)(E) makes clear that diagnostic studies under
    18 U.S.C. Secs. 4208(b), 5010(c), or 5034 are covered by this rule
    and also that 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4252 is included within the disclosure
    provisions of subdivision (c). Section 4252 provides for the
    presentence examination of an "eligible offender" who is believed
    to be an addict to determine whether "he is an addict and is likely
    to be rehabilitated through treatment."
      Both the Organized Crime Control Act of 1970 [Sec. 3775(b)] and
    the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970
    [Sec. 409(b)] have special provisions for presentence investigation
    in the implementation of the dangerous special offender provision.
    It is however, unnecessary to incorporate them by reference in rule
    32 because each contains a specific provision requiring disclosure
    of the presentence report. The judge does have authority to
    withhold some information "in extraordinary cases" provided notice
    is given the parties and the court's reasons for withholding
    information are made part of the record.
      Subdivision (e) is amended to clarify the meaning.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court Rule 32 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with sentencing matters.
      Proposed subdivision (a)(2) provides that the court is not
    dutybound to advise the defendant of a right to appeal when the
    sentence is imposed following a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
      Proposed subdivision (e) provides that the probation service must
    make a presentence investigation and report unless the court orders
    otherwise "for reasons stated on the record." The presentence
    report will not be submitted to the court until after the defendant
    pleads nolo contendere or guilty, or is found guilty, unless the
    defendant consents in writing. Upon the defendant's request, the
    court must permit the defendant to read the presentence report,
    except for the recommendation as to sentence. However, the court
    may decline to let the defendant read the report if it contains (a)
    diagnostic opinion that might seriously disrupt a rehabilitation
    program, (b) sources of information obtained upon a promise of
    confidentiality, or (c) any other information that, if disclosed,
    might result in harm to the defendant or other persons. The court
    must give the defendant an opportunity to comment upon the
    presentence report. If the court decides that the defendant should
    not see the report, then it must provide the defendant, orally or
    in writing, a summary of the factual information in the report upon
    which it is relying in determining sentence. No party may keep the
    report or make copies of it.
      B. Committee Action. The Committee added language to subdivision
    (a)(1) to provide that the attorney for the government may speak to
    the court at the time of sentencing. The language does not require
    that the attorney for the government speak but permits him to do so
    if he wishes.
      The Committee recast the language of subdivision (c)(1), which
    defines when presentence reports must be obtained. The Committee's
    provision makes it more difficult to dispense with a presentence
    report. It requires that a presentence report be made unless (a)
    the defendant waives it, or (b) the court finds that the record
    contains sufficient information to enable the meaningful exercise
    of sentencing discretion and explains this finding on the record.
    The Committee believes that presentence reports are important aids
    to sentencing and should not be dispensed with easily.
      The Committee added language to subdivision (c)(3)(A) that
    permits a defendant to offer testimony or information to rebut
    alleged factual inaccuracies in the presentence report. Since the
    presentence report is to be used by the court in imposing sentence
    and since the consequence of any significant inaccuracy can be very
    serious to the defendant, the Committee believes that it is
    essential that the presentence report be completely accurate in
    every material respect. The Committee's addition to subdivision
    (c)(3)(A) will help insure the accuracy of the presentence report.
      The Committee added language to subdivision (c)(3)(D) that gives
    the court the discretion to permit either the prosecutor or the
    defense counsel to retain a copy of the presentence report. There
    may be situations when it would be appropriate for either or both
    of the parties to retain the presentence report. The Committee
    believes that the rule should give the court the discretion in such
    situations to permit the parties to retain their copies.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (c)(3)(E). The amendment to rule 32(c)(3)(E)
    is necessary in light of recent changes in the applicable statutes.
      Note to Subdivision (f). This subdivision is abrogated. The
    subject matter is now dealt with in greater detail in proposed new
    rule 32.1.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (a)(1). Subdivision (a)(1) has been amended
    so as to impose upon the sentencing court the additional obligation
    of determining that the defendant and his counsel have had an
    opportunity to read the presentence investigation report or summary
    thereof. This change is consistent with the amendment of
    subdivision (c)(3), discussed below, providing for disclosure of
    the report (or, in the circumstances indicated, a summary thereof)
    to both defendant and his counsel without request. This amendment
    is also consistent with the findings of a recent empirical study
    that under present rule 32 meaningful disclosure is often lacking
    and "that some form of judicial prodding is necessary to achieve
    full disclosure." Fennell & Hall, Due Process at Sentencing: An
    Empirical and Legal Analysis of the Disclosure of Presentence
    Reports in Federal Courts, 93 Harv.L.Rev. 1613, 1651 (1980):
          The defendant's interest in an accurate and reliable
        presentence report does not cease with the imposition of
        sentence. Rather, these interests are implicated at later
        stages in the correctional process by the continued use of the
        presentence report as a basic source of information in the
        handling of the defendant. If the defendant is incarcerated,
        the presentence report accompanies him to the correctional
        institution and provides background information for the Bureau
        of Prisons' classification summary, which, in turn, determines
        the defendant's classification within the facility, his ability
        to obtain furloughs, and the choice of treatment programs. The
        presentence report also plays a crucial role during parole
        determination. Section 4207 of the Parole Commission and
        Reorganization Act directs the parole hearing examiner to
        consider, if available, the presentence report as well as other
        records concerning the prisoner. In addition to its general use
        as background at the parole hearing, the presentence report
        serves as the primary source of information for calculating the
        inmate's parole guideline score.
    Though it is thus important that the defendant be aware now of all
    these potential uses, the Advisory Committee has considered but not
    adopted a requirement that the trial judge specifically advise the
    defendant of these matters. The Committee believes that this
    additional burden should not be placed upon the trial judge, and
    that the problem is best dealt with by a form attached to the
    presentence report, to be signed by the defendant, advising of
    these potential uses of the report. This suggestion has been
    forwarded to the Probation Committee of the Judicial Conference.
      Note to Subdivision (c)(3)(A), (B) & (C). Three important changes
    are made in subdivision (c)(3): disclosure of the presentence
    report is no longer limited to those situations in which a request
    is made; disclosure is now provided to both defendant and his
    counsel; and disclosure is now required a reasonable time before
    sentencing. These changes have been prompted by findings in a
    recent empirical study that the extent and nature of disclosure of
    the presentence investigation report in federal courts under
    current rule 32 is insufficient to ensure accuracy of sentencing
    information. In 14 districts, disclosure is made only on request,
    and such requests are received in fewer than 50% of the cases.
    Forty-two of 92 probation offices do not provide automatic notice
    to defendant or counsel of the availability of the report; in 18
    districts, a majority of the judges do not provide any notice of
    the availability of the report, and in 20 districts such notice is
    given only on the day of sentencing. In 28 districts, the report
    itself is not disclosed until the day of sentencing in a majority
    of cases. Thirty-one courts generally disclose the report only to
    counsel and not to the defendant, unless the defendant makes a
    specific request. Only 13 districts disclose the presentence report
    to both defendant and counsel prior to the day of sentencing in 90%
    or more of the cases. Fennell & Hall, supra, at 1640-49.
      These findings make it clear that rule 32 in its present form is
    failing to fulfill its purpose. Unless disclosure is made
    sufficiently in advance of sentencing to permit the assertion and
    resolution of claims of inaccuracy prior to the sentencing hearing,
    the submission of additional information by the defendant when
    appropriate, and informed comment on the presentence report, the
    purpose of promoting accuracy by permitting the defendant to
    contest erroneous information is defeated. Similarly, if the report
    is not made available to the defendant and his counsel in a timely
    fashion, and if disclosure is only made on request, their
    opportunity to review the report may be inadequate. Finally, the
    failure to disclose the report to the defendant, or to require
    counsel to review the report with the defendant, significantly
    reduces the likelihood that false statements will be discovered, as
    much of the content of the presentence report will ordinarily be
    outside the knowledge of counsel.
      The additional change to subdivision (c)(3)(C) is intended to
    make it clear that the government's right to disclosure does not
    depend upon whether the defendant elects to exercise his right to
    disclosure.
      Note to Subdivision (c)(3)(D). Subdivision (c)(3)(D) is entirely
    new. It requires the sentencing court, as to each matter
    controverted, either to make a finding as to the accuracy of the
    challenged factual proposition or to determine that no reliance
    will be placed on that proposition at the time of sentencing. This
    new provision also requires that a record of this action accompany
    any copy of the report later made available to the Bureau of
    Prisons or Parole Commission.
      As noted above, the Bureau of Prisons and the Parole Commission
    make substantial use of the presentence investigation report. Under
    current practice, this can result in reliance upon assertions of
    fact in the report in the making of critical determinations
    relating to custody or parole. For example, it is possible that the
    Bureau or Commission, in the course of reaching a decision on such
    matters as institution assignment, eligibility for programs, or
    computation of salient factors, will place great reliance upon
    factual assertions in the report which are in fact untrue and which
    remained unchallenged at the time of the sentencing because
    defendant or his counsel deemed the error unimportant in the
    sentencing context (e.g., where the sentence was expected to
    conform to an earlier plea agreement, or where the judge said he
    would disregard certain controverted matter in setting the
    sentence).
      The first sentence of new subdivision (c)(3)(D) is intended to
    ensure that a record is made as to exactly what resolution occurred
    as to controverted matter. The second sentence is intended to
    ensure that this record comes to the attention of the Bureau or
    Commission when these agencies utilize the presentence
    investigation report. In current practice, "less than one-fourth of
    the district courts (twenty of ninety-two) communicate to the
    correctional agencies the defendant's challenges to information in
    the presentence report and the resolution of these challenges."
    Fennell & Hall, supra, at 1680.
      New subdivision (c)(3)(D) does not impose an onerous burden. It
    does not even require the preparation of a transcript. As is now
    the practice in some courts, these findings and determinations can
    be simply entered onto a form which is then appended to the report.
      Note to Subdivision (c)(3)(E) & (F). Former subdivisions
    (c)(3)(D) and (E) have been renumbered as (c)(3)(E) and (F). The
    only change is in the former, necessitated because disclosure is
    now to defendant and his counsel.
      The issue of access to the presentence report at the institution
    was discussed by the Advisory Committee, but no action was taken on
    that matter because it was believed to be beyond the scope of the
    rule-making power. Rule 32 in its present form does not speak to
    this issue, and thus the Bureau of Prisons and the Parole
    Commission are free to make provision for disclosure to inmates and
    their counsel.
      Note to Subdivision (d). The amendment to Rule 32(d) is intended
    to clarify (i) the standard applicable to plea withdrawal under
    this rule, and (ii) the circumstances under which the appropriate
    avenue of relief is other than a withdrawal motion under this rule.
    Both of these matters have been the source of considerable
    confusion under the present rule. In its present form, the rule
    declares that a motion to withdraw a plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere may be made only before sentence is imposed, but then
    states the standard for permitting withdrawal after sentence. In
    fact, "there is no limitation upon the time within which relief
    thereunder may, after sentencing, be sought." United States v.
    Watson, 548 F.2d 1058 (D.C.Cir. 1977). It has been critically
    stated that "the Rule offers little guidance as to the applicable
    standard for a pre-sentence withdrawal of plea," United States v.
    Michaelson, 552 F.2d 472 (2d Cir. 1977), and that as a result "the
    contours of [the presentence] standard are not easily defined."
    Bruce v. United States, 379 F.2d 113 (D.C.Cir. 1967).
      By replacing the "manifest injustice" standard with a requirement
    that, in cases to which it applied, the defendant must (unless
    taking a direct appeal) proceed under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255, the
    amendment avoids language which has been a cause of unnecessary
    confusion. Under the amendment, a defendant who proceeds too late
    to come under the more generous "fair and just reason" standard
    must seek relief under Sec. 2255, meaning the applicable standard
    is that stated in Hill v. United States, 368 U.S. 424 (1962): "a
    fundamental defect which inherently results in a complete
    miscarriage of justice" or "an omission inconsistent with the
    rudimentary demands of fair procedure."
      Some authority is to be found to the effect that the rule 32(d)
    "manifest injustice" standard is indistinguishable from the Sec.
    2255 standard. In United States v. Hamilton, 553 F.2d 63 (10th Cir.
    1977), for example, the court, after first concluding defendant was
    not entitled to relief under the Sec. 2255 "miscarriage of justice"
    test, then held that "[n]othing is to be gained by the invocation
    of Rule 32(d)" and its manifest injustice" standard. Some courts,
    however, have indicated that the rule 32(d) standard provides a
    somewhat broader basis for relief than Sec. 2255. United States v.
    Dabdoub-Diaz, 599 F.2d 96 (5th Cir. 1979); United States v. Watson,
    548 F.2d 1058 (D.C.Cir. 1977): Meyer v. United States, 424 F.2d
    1181 (8th Cir.1970); United States v. Kent, 397 F.2d 446 (7th Cir.
    1968). It is noteworthy, however, that in Dabdoub-Diaz, Meyer and
    Kent the defendant did not prevail under either Sec. 2255 or Rule
    32(d), and that in Watson, though the Sec. 2255 case was remanded
    for consideration as a 32(d) motion, defendant's complaint (that he
    was not advised of the special parole term, though the sentence he
    received did not exceed that he was warned about by the court) was
    one as to which relief had been denied even upon direct appeal from
    the conviction. United States v. Peters, No. 77-1700 (4th Cir. Dec.
    22, 1978).
      Indeed, it may more generally be said that the results in Sec.
    2255 and 32(d) guilty plea cases have been for the most part the
    same. Relief has often been granted or recognized as available via
    either of these routes for essentially the same reasons: that there
    exists a complete constitutional bar to conviction on the offense
    charged, Brooks v. United States, 424 F.2d 425 (5th Cir. 1970)
    (Sec. 2255), United States v. Bluso, 519 F.2d 473 (4th Cir. 1975)
    (Rule 32); that the defendant was incompetent at the time of his
    plea, United States v. Masthers, 539 F.2d 721 (D.C.Cir. 1976) (Sec.
    2255), Kienlen v. United States, 379 F.2d 20 (10th Cir. 1967) (Rule
    32); and that the bargain the prosecutor made with defendant was
    not kept, Walters v. Harris, 460 F.2d 988 (4th Cir. 1972) (Sec.
    2255), United States v. Hawthorne, 502 F.2d 1183 (3rd Cir. 1974)
    (Rule 32). Perhaps even more significant is the fact that relief
    has often been denied under like circumstances whichever of the two
    procedures was used: a mere technical violation of Rule 11, United
    States v. Timmreck, 441 U.S. 780 (1979) (Sec. 2255), United States
    v. Saft, 558 F.2d 1073 (2d Cir. 1977) (Rule 32); the mere fact
    defendants expected a lower sentence, United States v. White, 572
    F.2d 1007 (4th Cir. 1978) (Sec. 2255), Masciola v. United States,
    469 F.2d 1057 (3rd Cir. 1972) (Rule 32); or mere familial coercion,
    Wojtowicz v. United States, 550 F.2d 786 (2d Cir. 1977) (Sec.
    2255), United States v. Bartoli, 572 F.2d 188 (8th Cir. 1978) (Rule
    32).
      The one clear instance in which a Rule 32(d) attack might prevail
    when a Sec. 2255 challenge would not is present in those circuits
    which have reached the questionable result that post-sentence
    relief under 32(d) is available not merely upon a showing of a
    "manifest injustice" but also for any deviation from literal
    compliance with Rule 11. United States v. Cantor, 469 F.2d 435 (3d
    Cir. 1972). See Advisory Committee Note to Rule 11(h), noting the
    unsoundness of that position.
      The change in Rule 32(d), therefore, is at best a minor one in
    terms of how post-sentence motions to withdraw pleas will be
    decided. It avoids the confusion which now obtains as to whether a
    Sec. 2255 petition must be assumed to also be a 32(d) motion and,
    if so, whether this bears significantly upon how the matter should
    be decided. See, e.g., United States v. Watson, supra. It also
    avoids the present undesirable situation in which the mere
    selection of one of two highly similar avenues of relief, rule
    32(d) or Sec. 2255, may have significant procedural consequences,
    such as whether the government can take an appeal from the district
    court's adverse ruling (possible under Sec. 2255 only). Moreover,
    because Sec. 2255 and Rule 32(d) are properly characterized as the
    "two principal procedures for collateral attack of a federal plea
    conviction," Borman, The Hidden Right to Direct Appeal From a
    Federal Conviction, 64 Cornell L.Rev. 319, 327 (1979), this
    amendment is also in keeping with the proposition underlying the
    Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Timmreck, supra,
    namely, that "the concern with finality served by the limitation on
    collateral attack has special force with respect to convictions
    based on guilty pleas." The amendment is likewise consistent with
    ALI Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure Sec. 350.9 (1975)
    ("Allegations of noncompliance with the procedures provided in
    Article 350 shall not be a basis for review of a conviction after
    the appeal period for such conviction has expired, unless such
    review is required by the Constitution of the United States or of
    this State or otherwise by the law of this State other than Article
    350"); ABA Standards Relating to the Administration of Criminal
    Justice Sec. 14-2.1 (2d ed. 1978) (using "manifest injustice"
    standard, but listing six specific illustrations each of which
    would be basis for relief under Sec. 2255); Unif.R.Crim.P. 444(e)
    (Approved Draft, 1974) (using "interest of justice" test, but
    listing five specific illustrations each of which would be basis
    for relief under Sec. 2255).
      The first sentence of the amended rule incorporates the "fair and
    just" standard which the federal courts, relying upon dictum in
    Kercheval v. United States, 274 U.S. 220 (1927), have consistently
    applied to presentence motions. See, e.g., United States v.
    Strauss, 563 F.2d 127 (4th Cir. 1977); United States v. Bradin, 535
    F.2d 1039 (8th Cir. 1976); United States v. Barker, 514 F.2d 208
    (D.C.Cir. 1975). Under the rule as amended, it is made clear that
    the defendant has the burden of showing a "fair and just" reason
    for withdrawal of the plea. This is consistent with the prevailing
    view, which is that "the defendant has the burden of satisfying the
    trial judge that there are valid grounds for withdrawal," see
    United States v. Michaelson, supra, and cases cited therein.
    (Illustrative of a reason which would meet this test but would
    likely fall short of the Sec. 2255 test is where the defendant now
    wants to pursue a certain defense which he for good reason did not
    put forward earlier, United States v. Barker, supra.)
      Although "the terms 'fair and just' lack any pretense of
    scientific exactness," United States v. Barker, supra, guidelines
    have emerged in the appellate cases for applying this standard.
    Whether the movant has asserted his legal innocence is an important
    factor to be weighed, United States v. Joslin, 434 F.2d 526
    (D.C.Cir. 1970), as is the reason why the defenses were not put
    forward at the time of original pleading. United States v. Needles,
    472 F.2d 652 (2d Cir. 1973). The amount of time which has passed
    between the plea and the motion must also be taken into account.
      A swift change of heart is itself strong indication that the plea
      was entered in haste and confusion * * *. By contrast, if the
      defendant has long delayed his withdrawal motion, and has had the
      full benefit of competent counsel at all times, the reasons given
      to support withdrawal must have considerably more force.
    United States v. Barker, supra.
      If the defendant establishes such a reason, it is then
    appropriate to consider whether the government would be prejudiced
    by withdrawal of the plea. Substantial prejudice may be present for
    a variety of reasons. See United States v. Jerry, 487 F.2d 600 (3d
    Cir. 1973) (physical evidence had been discarded); United States v.
    Vasquez-Velasco, 471 F.2d 294 (9th Cir. 1973) (death of chief
    government witness); United States v. Lombardozzi, 436 F.2d 878 (2d
    Cir. 1971) (other defendants with whom defendant had been joined
    for trial had already been tried in a lengthy trial); Farnsworth v.
    Sanford, 115 F.2d 375 (5th Cir. 1940) (prosecution had dismissed 52
    witnesses who had come from all over the country and from overseas
    bases).
      There is currently some disparity in the manner in which
    presentence motions to withdraw a guilty plea are dealt with. Some
    courts proceed as if any desire to withdraw the plea before
    sentence is "fair and just" so long as the government fails to
    establish that it would be prejudiced by the withdrawal.
    Illustrative is United States v. Savage, 561 F.2d 554 (4th Cir.
    1977), where the defendant pleaded guilty pursuant to a plea
    agreement that the government would recommend a sentence of 5
    years. At the sentencing hearing, the trial judge indicated his
    unwillingness to follow the government's recommendation, so the
    defendant moved to withdraw his plea. That motion was denied. On
    appeal, the court held that there had been no violation of Rule 11,
    in that refusal to accept the government's recommendation does not
    constitute a rejection of the plea agreement. But the court then
    proceeded to hold that absent any showing of prejudice by the
    government, "the defendant should be allowed to withdraw his plea";
    only upon such a showing by the government must the court "weigh
    the defendant's reasons for seeking to withdraw his plea against
    the prejudice which the government will suffer." The other view is
    that there is no occasion to inquire into the matter of prejudice
    unless the defendant first shows a good reason for being allowed to
    withdraw his plea. As stated in United States v. Saft, 558 F.2d
    1073 (2d Cir. 1977): "The Government is not required to show
    prejudice when a defendant has shown no sufficient grounds for
    permitting withdrawal of a guilty plea, although such prejudice may
    be considered by the district court in exercising its discretion."
    The second sentence of the amended rule, by requiring that the
    defendant show a "fair and just" reason, adopts the Saft position
    and rejects that taken in Savage.
      The Savage position, as later articulated in United States v.
    Strauss, supra, is that the "sounder view, supported by both the
    language of the rule and by the reasons for it, would be to allow
    withdrawal of the plea prior to sentencing unless the prosecution
    has been substantially prejudiced by reliance upon the defendant's
    plea." (Quoting 2 C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure Sec.
    538, at 474-75 (1969). Although that position may once have been
    sound, this is no longer the case in light of the recent revisions
    of Rule 11. Rule 11 now provides for the placing of plea agreements
    on the record, for full inquiry into the voluntariness of the plea,
    for detailed advice to the defendant concerning his rights and the
    consequences of his plea and a determination that the defendant
    understands these matters, and for a determination of the accuracy
    of the plea. Given the great care with which pleas are taken under
    this revised Rule 11, there is no reason to view pleas so taken as
    merely "tentative," subject to withdrawal before sentence whenever
    the government cannot establish prejudice.
      Were withdrawal automatic in every case where the defendant
      decided to alter his tactics and present his theory of the case
      to the jury, the guilty plea would become a mere gesture, a
      temporary and meaningless formality reversible at the defendant's
      whim. In fact, however, a guilty plea is no such trifle, but "a
      grave and solemn act," which is "accepted only with care and
      discernment."
    United States v. Barker, supra, quoting from Brady v. United
    States, 397 U.S. 742 (1970).
      The facts of the Savage case reflect the wisdom of this position.
    In Savage, the defendant had entered into a plea agreement whereby
    he agreed to plead guilty in exchange for the government's promise
    to recommend a sentence of 5 years, which the defendant knew was
    not binding on the court. Yet, under the approach taken in Savage,
    the defendant remains free to renege on his plea bargain,
    notwithstanding full compliance therewith by the attorney for the
    government, if it later appears to him from the presentence report
    or the comments of the trial judge or any other source that the
    court will not follow the government's recommendation. Having
    bargained for a recommendation pursuant to Rule 11(e)(1)(B), the
    defendant should not be entitled, in effect, to unilaterally
    convert the plea agreement into a Rule 11(e)(1)(C) type of
    agreement (i.e., one with a guarantee of a specific sentence which,
    if not given, permits withdrawal of the plea).
      The first sentence of subdivision (d) provides that the motion,
    to be judged under the more liberal "fair and just reason" test,
    must have been made before sentence is imposed, imposition of
    sentence is suspended, or disposition is had under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    4205(c). The latter of these has been added to the rule to make it
    clear that the lesser standard also governs prior to the second
    stage of sentencing when the judge, pursuant to that statute, has
    committed the defendant to the custody of the Attorney General for
    study pending final disposition. Several circuits have left this
    issue open, e.g., United States v. McCoy, 477 F.2d 550 (5th Cir.
    1973); Callaway v. United States, 367 F.2d 140 (10th Cir. 1966);
    while some have held that a withdrawal motion filed between
    tentative and final sentencing should be judged against the
    presentence standard, United States v. Barker, 514 F.2d 208
    (D.C.Cir. 1975); United States v. Thomas, 415 F.2d 1216 (9th Cir.
    1969).
      Inclusion of the Sec. 4205(c) situation under the presentence
    standard is appropriate. As explained in Barker:
      Two reasons of policy have been advanced to explain the near-
      presumption which Rule 32(d) erects against post-sentence
      withdrawal motions. The first is that post-sentence withdrawal
      subverts the "stability" of "final judgments." * * * The second
      reason is that the post-sentence withdrawal motion often
      constitutes a veiled attack on the judge's sentencing decision;
      to grant such motions in lenient fashion might
      undermine respect for the courts and fritter away the time and
      painstaking effort devoted to the sentence process.
        * * * Concern for the "stability of final judgments" has little
      application to withdrawal motions filed between tentative and
      final sentencing under Section 4208(b) [now 4205(c)]. The point
      at which a defendant's judgment of conviction becomes "final" for
      purposes of appeal - whether at tentative or at final sentencing -
       is wholly within the defendant's discretion. * * * Concern for
      the integrity of the sentencing process is, however, another
      matter. The major point, in our view, is that tentative
      sentencing under Section 4208(b) [now 4205(c)] leaves the
      defendant ignorant of his final sentence. He will therefore be
      unlikely to use a withdrawal motion as an oblique attack on the
      judge's sentencing policy. The relative leniency of the "fair and
      just" standard is consequently not out of place.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1989 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (a)(1) is intended to clarify that
    the court is expected to proceed without unnecessary delay, and
    that it may be necessary to delay sentencing when an applicable
    sentencing factor cannot be resolved at the time set for
    sentencing. Often, the factor will relate to a defendant's
    agreement to cooperate with the government. But, other factors may
    be capable of resolution if the court delays sentencing while
    additional information is generated. As currently written, the rule
    might imply that a delay requested by one party or suggested by the
    court sua sponte might be unreasonable. The amendment rids the rule
    of any such implication and provides the sentencing court with
    desirable discretion to assure that relevant factors are considered
    and accurately resolved. In exercising this discretion, the court
    retains under the amendment the authority to refuse to delay
    sentencing when a delay is inappropriate under the circumstances.
      In amending subdivision (c)(1), the Committee conformed the rule
    to the current practice in some courts: i.e., to permit the
    defendant and the prosecutor to see a presentence report prior to a
    plea of guilty if the court, with the written consent of the
    defendant, receives the report at that time. The amendment permits,
    but does not require, disclosure of the report with the written
    consent of the defendant.
      The amendment to change the "reasonable time" language in
    subdivision (c)(3)(A) to at least 10 days prior to sentencing,
    unless the defendant waives the minimum period, conforms the rule
    to 18 U.S.C. 3552(d). Nothing in the statue [sic] or the rule
    prohibits a court from requiring disclosure at an earlier time
    before sentencing. The inclusion of a specific waiver provision is
    intended to conform the rule to the statute and is not intended to
    suggest that waiver of other rights is precluded when no specific
    waiver provision is set forth in a rule or portion thereof.
      The language requiring the court to provide the defendant and
    defense counsel with a copy of the presentence report complements
    the abrogation of subdivision (E), which had required the defense
    to return the probation report. Because a defendant or the
    government may seek to appeal a sentence, an option that is
    permitted under some circumstances, there will be cases in which
    the defendant has a need for the presentence report during the
    preparation of, or the response to, an appeal. This is one reason
    why the Committee decided that the defendant should not be required
    to return the nonconfidential portions of the presentence report
    that have been disclosed. Another reason is that district courts
    may find it desirable to adopt portions of the presentence report
    when making findings of fact under the guidelines. They would be
    inhibited unnecessarily from relying on careful, accurate
    presentence reports if such reports could not be retained by
    defendants. A third reason why defendant should be able to retain
    the reports disclosed to them is that the Supreme Court's decision
    in United States Department of Justice v. Julian, 486 U.S. 1
    (1988), 108 S.Ct. 1606 (1988), suggests that defendants will
    routinely be able to secure their reports through Freedom of
    Information Act suits. No public interest is served by continuing
    to require the return of reports, and unnecessary FOIA litigation
    should be avoided as a result of the amendment to Rule 32.
      The amended rule does not direct whether the defendant or the
    defendant's lawyer should retain the presentence report. In
    exceptional cases where retention of a report in a local detention
    facility might pose a danger to persons housed there, the district
    judge may direct that the defendant not personally retain a copy of
    the report until the defendant has been transferred to the facility
    where the sentence will be served.
      Because the parties need not return the presentence report to the
    probation officer, the Solicitor General should be able to review
    the report in deciding whether to permit the United States to
    appeal a sentence under the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3551 et seq.
      Although the Committee was concerned about the potential
    unfairness of having confidential or diagnostic material included
    in presentence reports but not disclosed to a defendant who might
    be adversely affected by such material, it decided not to recommend
    at this time a change in the rule which would require complete
    disclosure. Some diagnostic material might be particularly useful
    when a court imposes probation, and might well be harmful to the
    defendant if disclosed. Moreover, some of this material might
    assist correctional officials in prescribing treatment programs for
    an incarcerated defendant. Information provided by confidential
    sources and information posing a possible threat of harm to third
    parties was particularly troubling to the Committee, since this
    information is often extremely negative and thus potentially
    harmful to a defendant. The Committee concluded, however, that it
    was preferable to permit the probation officer to include this
    information in a report so that the sentencing court may determine
    whether is [it] ought to be disclosed to the defendant. If the
    court determines that it should not be disclosed, it will have to
    decide whether to summarize the contents of the information or to
    hold that no finding as to the undisclosed information will be made
    because such information will not be taken into account in
    sentencing. Substantial due process problems may arise if a court
    attempts to summarize information in a presentence report, the
    defendant challenges the information, and the court attempts to
    make a finding as to the accuracy of the information without
    disclosing to the defendant the source of the information or the
    details placed before the court. In deciding not to require
    disclosure of everything in a presentence report, the Committee
    made no judgment that findings could validly be made based upon
    nondisclosed information.
      Finally, portions of the rule were gender-neutralized.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive changes are
    intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The original subdivision (e) has been deleted due to statutory
    changes affecting the authority of a court to grant probation. See
    18 U.S.C. 3561(a). Its replacement is one of a number of
    contemporaneous amendments extending Rule 26.2 to hearings and
    proceedings other than the trial itself. The amendment to Rule 32
    specifically codifies the result in cases such as United States v.
    Rosa, 891 F.2d 1074 (3d. Cir. 1989). In that case the defendant
    pleaded guilty to a drug offense. During sentencing the defendant
    unsuccessfully attempted to obtain Jencks Act materials relating to
    a co-accused who testified as a government witness at sentencing.
    In concluding that the trial court erred in not ordering the
    government to produce its witness's statement, the court stated:
      We believe the sentence imposed on a defendant is the most
      critical stage of criminal proceedings, and is, in effect, the
      "bottom-line" for the defendant, particularly where the defendant
      has pled guilty. This being so, we can perceive no purpose in
      denying the defendant the ability to effectively cross-examine a
      government witness where such testimony may, if accepted, and
      substantially to the defendant's sentence. In such a setting, we
      believe that the rationale of Jencks v. United States . . . and
      the purpose of the Jencks Act would be disserved if the
      government at such a grave stage of a criminal proceeding could
      deprive the accused of material valuable not only to the defense
      but to his very liberty. Id. at 1079.
      The court added that the defendant had not been sentenced under
    the new Sentencing Guidelines and that its decision could take on
    greater importance under those rules. Under Guideline sentencing,
    said the court, the trial judge has less discretion to moderate a
    sentence and is required to impose a sentence based upon specific
    factual findings which need not be established beyond a reasonable
    doubt. Id at n. 3.
      Although the Rosa decision decided only the issue of access by
    the defendant to Jencks material, the amendment parallels Rules
    26.2 (applying Jencks Act to trial) and 12(i) (applying Jencks Act
    to suppression hearing) in that both the defense and the
    prosecution are entitled to Jencks material.
      Production of a statement is triggered by the witness's oral
    testimony. The sanction provision rests on the assumption that the
    proponent of the witness's testimony has deliberately elected to
    withhold relevant material.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1994 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments to Rule 32 are intended to accomplish two primary
    objectives. First, the amendments incorporate elements of a "Model
    Local Rule for Guideline Sentencing" which was proposed by the
    Judicial Conference Committee on Probation Administration in 1987.
    That model rule and the accompanying report were prepared to assist
    trial judges in implementing guideline sentencing mandated by the
    Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. See Committee on the Admin. of the
    Probation Sys., Judicial Conference of the U.S., Recommended
    Procedures for Guideline Sentencing and Commentary: Model Local
    Rule for Guideline Sentencing, Reprinted in T. Hutchinson & D.
    Yellen, Federal Sentencing Law and Practice, app. 8, at 431 (1989).
    It was anticipated that sentencing hearings would become more
    complex due to the new fact finding requirements imposed by
    guideline sentencing methodology. See U.S.S.G. Sec. 6A1.2.
    Accordingly, the model rule focused on preparation of the
    presentence report as a means of identifying and narrowing the
    issues to be decided at the sentencing hearing.
      Second, in the process of effecting those amendments, the rule
    was reorganized. Over time, numerous amendments to the rule had
    created a sort of hodge podge; the reorganization represents an
    attempt to reflect an appropriate sequential order in the
    sentencing procedures.
      Subdivision (a). Subdivision (a) retains the general mandate that
    sentence be imposed without unnecessary delay thereby permitting
    the court to regulate the time to be allowed for the probation
    officer to complete the presentence investigation and submit the
    report. The only requirement is that sufficient time be allowed for
    completion of the process prescribed by subdivision (b)(6) unless
    the time periods established in the subdivision are shortened or
    lengthened by the court for good cause. Such limits are not
    intended to create any new substantive right for the defendant or
    the Government which would entitle either to relief if a time limit
    prescribed in the rule is not kept.
      The remainder of subdivision (a), which addressed the sentencing
    hearing, is now located in subdivision (c).
      Subdivision (b). Subdivision (b) (formerly subdivision (c)),
    which addresses the presentence investigation, has been modified in
    several respects.
      First, subdivision (b)(2) is a new provision which provides that,
    on request, defense counsel is entitled to notice and a reasonable
    opportunity to be present at any interview of the defendant
    conducted by the probation officer. Although the courts have not
    held that presentence interviews are a critical stage of the trial
    for purposes of the Sixth Amendment right to counsel, the amendment
    reflects case law which has indicated that requests for counsel to
    be present should be honored. See, e.g., United States v. Herrera-
    Figueroa, 918 F.2d 1430, 1437 (9th Cir. 1990) (court relied on its
    supervisory power to hold that probation officers must honor
    request for counsel's presence); United States v. Tisdale, 952 F.2d
    934, 940 (6th Cir. 1992) (court agreed with rule requiring
    probation officers to honor defendant's request for attorney or
    request from attorney not to interview defendant in absence of
    counsel). The Committee believes that permitting counsel to be
    present during such interviews may avoid unnecessary
    misunderstandings between the probation officer and the defendant.
    The rule does not further define the term "interview." The
    Committee intended for the provision to apply to any communication
    initiated by the probation officer where he or she is asking the
    defendant to provide information which will be used in preparation
    of the presentence investigation. Spontaneous or unplanned
    encounters between the defendant and the probation officer would
    normally not fall within the purview of the rule. The Committee
    also believed that the burden should rest on defense counsel,
    having received notice, to respond as promptly as possible to
    enable timely completion of the presentence report.
      Subdivision (b)(6), formerly (c)(3), includes several changes
    which recognize the key role the presentence report is playing
    under guideline sentencing. The major thrust of these changes is to
    address the problem of resolving objections by the parties to the
    probation officer's presentence report. Subdivision (b)(6)(A) now
    provides that the probation officer must present the presentence
    report to the parties not later than 35 days before the sentencing
    hearing (rather than 10 days before imposition of the sentence) in
    order to provide some additional time to the parties and the
    probation officer to attempt to resolve objections to the report.
    There has been a slight change in the practice of deleting from the
    copy of the report given to the parties certain information
    specified in (b)(6)(A). Under that new provision (changing former
    subdivision (c)(3)(A)), the court has the discretion (in an
    individual case or in accordance with a local rule) to direct the
    probation officer to withhold any final recommendation concerning
    the sentence. Otherwise, the recommendation, if any, is subject to
    disclosure. The prior practice of not disclosing confidential
    information, or other information which might result in harm to the
    defendant or other persons, is retained in (b)(5).
      New subdivisions (b)(6)(B), (C), and (D) now provide explicit
    deadlines and guidance on resolving disputes about the contents of
    the presentence report. The amendments are intended to provide
    early resolution of such disputes by (1) requiring the parties to
    provide the probation officer with a written list of objections to
    the report within 14 days of receiving the report; (2) permitting
    the probation officer to meet with the defendant, the defendant's
    counsel, and the attorney for the Government to discuss objections
    to the report, conduct an additional investigation, and to make
    revisions to the report as deemed appropriate; (3) requiring the
    probation officer to submit the report to the court and the parties
    not later than 7 days before the sentencing hearing, noting any
    unresolved disputes; and (4) permitting the court to treat the
    report as its findings of fact, except for the parties' unresolved
    objections. Although the rule does not explicitly address the
    question of whether counsel's objections to the report are to be
    filed with the court, there is nothing in the rule which would
    prohibit a court from requiring the parties to file their original
    objections or have them included as an addendum to the presentence
    report.
      This procedure, which generally mirrors the approach in the Model
    Local Rule for Guideline Sentencing, supra, is intended to maximize
    judicial economy by providing for more orderly sentencing hearings
    while also providing fair opportunity for both parties to review,
    object to, and comment upon, the probation officer's report in
    advance of the sentencing hearing. Under the amendment, the parties
    would still be free at the sentencing hearing to comment on the
    presentence report, and in the discretion of the court, to
    introduce evidence concerning their objections to the report.
      Subdivision (c). Subdivision (c) addresses the imposition of
    sentence and makes no major changes in current practice. The
    provision consists largely of material formerly located in
    subdivision (a). Language formerly in (a)(1) referring to the
    court's disclosure to the parties of the probation officer's
    determination of the sentencing classifications and sentencing
    guideline range is now located in subdivisions (b)(4)(B) and
    (c)(1). Likewise, the brief reference in former (a)(1) to the
    ability of the parties to comment on the probation officer's
    determination of sentencing classifications and sentencing
    guideline range is now located in (c)(1) and (c)(3).
      Subdivision (c)(1) is not intended to require that resolution of
    objections and imposition of the sentence occur at the same time or
    during the same hearing. It requires only that the court rule on
    any objections before sentence is imposed. In considering
    objections during the sentencing hearing, the court may in its
    discretion, permit the parties to introduce evidence. The rule
    speaks in terms of the court's discretion, but the Sentencing
    Guidelines specifically provide that the court must provide the
    parties with a reasonable opportunity to offer information
    concerning a sentencing factor reasonably in dispute. See U.S.S.G.
    Sec. 6A1.3(a). Thus, it may be an abuse of discretion not to permit
    the introduction of additional evidence. Although the rules of
    evidence do not apply to sentencing proceedings, see Fed. R. Evid.
    1101(d)(3), the court clearly has discretion in determining the
    mode, timing, and extent of the evidence offered. See, e.g., United
    States v. Zuleta-Alvarez, 922 F.2d 33, 36 (1st Cir. 1990) (trial
    court did not err in denying defendant's late request to introduce
    rebuttal evidence by way of cross-examination).
      Subdivision (c)(1) (formerly subdivision (c)(3)(D)) indicates
    that the court need not resolve controverted matters which will
    "not be taken into account in, or will not affect, sentencing." The
    words "will not affect" did not exist in the former provision but
    were added in the revision in recognition that there might be
    situations, due to overlaps in the sentencing ranges, where a
    controverted matter would not alter the sentence even if the
    sentencing range were changed.
      The provision for disclosure of a witness' statements, which was
    recently proposed as an amendment to Rule 32 as new subdivision
    (e), is now located in subdivision (c)(2).
      Subdivision (c)(3) includes minor changes. First, if the court
    intends to rely on information otherwise excluded from the
    presentence report under subdivision (b)(5), that information is to
    be summarized in writing and submitted to the defendant and the
    defendant's counsel. Under the former provision in (c)(3)(A), such
    information could be summarized orally. Once the information is
    presented, the defendant and the defendant's counsel are to be
    given a reasonable opportunity to comment; in appropriate cases,
    that may require a continuance of the sentencing proceedings.
      Subdivision (c)(5), concerning notification of the right to
    appeal, was formerly included in subdivision (a)(2). Although the
    provision has been rewritten, the Committee intends no substantive
    change in practice. That is, the court may, but is not required to,
    advise a defendant who has entered a guilty plea, nolo contendere
    plea or a conditional guilty plea of any right to appeal (such as
    an appeal challenging jurisdiction). However, the duty to advise
    the defendant in such cases extends only to advice on the right to
    appeal any sentence imposed.
      Subdivision (d). Subdivision (d), dealing with entry of the
    court's judgment, is former subdivision (b).
      Subdivision (e). Subdivision (e), which addresses the topic of
    withdrawing pleas, was formerly subdivision (d). Both provisions
    remain the same except for minor stylistic changes.
      Under present practice, the court may permit, but is not required
    to hear, victim allocution before imposing sentence. The Committee
    considered, but rejected, a provision which would have required the
    court to hear victim allocution at sentencing.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1996 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (d)(2). A provision for including a verdict of
    criminal forfeiture as a part of the sentence was added in 1972 to
    Rule 32. Since then, the rule has been interpreted to mean that any
    forfeiture order is a part of the judgment of conviction and cannot
    be entered before sentencing. See, e.g., United States v.
    Alexander, 772 F.Supp. 440 (D. Minn. 1990).
      Delaying forfeiture proceedings, however, can pose real problems,
    especially in light of the implementation of the Sentencing Reform
    Act in 1987 and the resulting delays between verdict and sentencing
    in complex cases. First, the government's statutory right to
    discover the location of property subject to forfeiture is
    triggered by entry of an order of forfeiture. See 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    1963(k) and 21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(m). If that order is delayed until
    sentencing, valuable time may be lost in locating assets which may
    have become unavailable or unusable. Second, third persons with an
    interest in the property subject to forfeiture must also wait to
    petition the court to begin ancillary proceedings until the
    forfeiture order has been entered. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1963(l) and
    21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(m). And third, because the government cannot
    actually seize the property until an order of forfeiture is
    entered, it may be necessary for the court to enter restraining
    orders to maintain the status quo.
      The amendment to Rule 32 is intended to address these concerns by
    specifically recognizing the authority of the court to enter a
    preliminary forfeiture order before sentencing. Entry of an order
    of forfeiture before sentencing rests within the discretion of the
    court, which may take into account anticipated delays in
    sentencing, the nature of the property, and the interests of the
    defendant, the government, and third persons.
      The amendment permits the court to enter its order of forfeiture
    at any time before sentencing. Before entering the order of
    forfeiture, however, the court must provide notice to the defendant
    and a reasonable opportunity to be heard on the question of timing
    and form of any order of forfeiture.
      The rule specifies that the order, which must ultimately be made
    a part of the sentence and included in the judgment, must contain
    authorization for the Attorney General to seize the property in
    question and to conduct appropriate discovery and to begin any
    necessary ancillary proceedings to protect third parties who have
    an interest in the property.

           CONGRESSIONAL MODIFICATION OF PROPOSED 1994 AMENDMENT       
      Section 230101(a) of Pub. L. 103-322 [set out as a note under
    section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure]
    provided that the amendment proposed by the Supreme Court [in its
    order of Apr. 29, 1994] affecting rule 32 of the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure [this rule] would take effect on Dec. 1, 1994,
    as otherwise provided by law, and as amended by section 230101(b)
    of Pub. L. 103-322. See 1994 Amendment note below.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2000 AMENDMENT             
      The rule is amended to reflect the creation of new Rule 32.2,
    which now governs criminal forfeiture procedures.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 32 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The rule has been completely reorganized to make it easier to
    follow and apply. For example, the definitions in the rule have
    been moved to the first section and the sequencing of the sections
    generally follows the procedure for presentencing and sentencing
    procedures.
      Revised Rule 32(a) contains definitions that currently appear in
    Rule 32(f). One substantive change was made in Rule 32(a)(2). The
    Committee expanded the definition of victims of crimes of violence
    or sexual abuse to include victims of child pornography under 18
    U.S.C. Secs. 2251-2257 (child pornography and related offenses).
    The Committee considered those victims to be similar to victims of
    sexual offenses under 18 U.S.C. Secs. 2241-2248, who already
    possess that right.
      Revised Rule 32(d) has been amended to more clearly set out the
    contents of the presentence report concerning the application of
    the Sentencing Guidelines.
      Current Rule 32(e), which addresses the ability of a defendant to
    withdraw a guilty plea, has been moved to Rule 11(e).
      Rule 32(h) is a new provision that reflects Burns v. United
    States, 501 U.S. 129, 138-39 (1991). In Burns, the Court held that,
    before a sentencing court could depart upward on a ground not
    previously identified in the presentence report as a ground for
    departure, Rule 32 requires the court to give the parties
    reasonable notice that it is contemplating such a ruling and to
    identify the specific ground for the departure. The Court also
    indicated that because the procedural entitlements in Rule 32 apply
    equally to both parties, it was equally appropriate to frame the
    issue as whether notice is required before the sentencing court
    departs either upward or downward. Id. at 135, n.4.
      Revised Rule 32(i)(3) addresses changes to current Rule 32(c)(1).
    Under the current rule, the court is required to "rule on any
    unresolved objections to the presentence report." The rule does not
    specify, however, whether that provision should be read literally
    to mean every objection that might have been made to the report or
    only on those objections that might in some way actually affect the
    sentence. The Committee believed that a broad reading of the
    current rule might place an unreasonable burden on the court
    without providing any real benefit to the sentencing process.
    Revised Rule 32(i)(3) narrows the requirement for court findings to
    those instances when the objection addresses a "controverted
    matter." If the objection satisfies that criterion, the court must
    either make a finding on the objection or decide that a finding is
    not required because the matter will not affect sentencing or that
    the matter will not be considered at all in sentencing.
      Revised Rule 32(i)(4)(B) provides for the right of certain
    victims to address the court during sentencing. As noted, supra,
    revised Rule 32(a)(2) expands the definition of victims to include
    victims of crimes under 18 U.S.C. Secs. 2251-57 (child pornography
    and related offenses). Thus, they too will now be permitted to
    address the court.
      Revised Rule 32(i)(1)(B) is intended to clarify language that
    currently exists in Rule 32(h)(3), that the court must inform both
    parties that the court will rely on information not in the
    presentence report and provide them with an opportunity to comment
    on the information.
      Rule 32(i)(4)(C) includes a change concerning who may request an
    in camera proceeding. Under current Rule 32(c)(4), the parties must
    file a joint motion for an in camera proceeding to hear the
    statements by defense counsel, the defendant, the attorney for the
    government, or any victim. Under the revised rule, any party may
    move (for good cause) that the court hear in camera any statement -
    by a party or a victim - made under revised Rule 32(i)(4).
      Finally, the Committee considered, but did not adopt, an
    amendment that would have required the court to rule on any
    "unresolved objection to a material matter" in the presentence
    report, whether or not the court will consider it in imposing an
    appropriate sentence. The amendment was considered because an
    unresolved objection that has no impact on determining a sentence
    under the Sentencing Guidelines may affect other important post-
    sentencing decisions. For example, the Bureau of Prisons consults
    the presentence report in deciding where a defendant will actually
    serve his or her sentence of confinement. See A Judicial Guide to
    the Federal Bureau of Prisons, 11 (United States Department of
    Justice, Federal Bureau of Prisons 1995) (noting that the "Bureau
    relies primarily on the Presentence Investigator Report . . .").
    And as some courts have recognized, Rule 32 was intended to guard
    against adverse consequences of a statement in the presentence
    report that the court may have been found to be false. United
    States v. Velasquez, 748 F.2d 972, 974 (8th Cir. 1984) (rule
    designed to protect against evil that false allegation that
    defendant was notorious alien smuggler would affect defendant for
    years to come); see also United States v. Brown, 715 F.2d 387, 389
    n.2 (5th Cir. 1983) (sentencing report affects "place of
    incarceration, chances for parole, and relationships with social
    service and correctional agencies after release from prison").
      To avoid unduly burdening the court, the Committee elected not to
    require resolution of objections that go only to service of
    sentence. However, because of the presentence report's critical
    role in post-sentence administration, counsel may wish to point out
    to the court those matters that are typically considered by the
    Bureau of Prisons in designating the place of confinement. For
    example, the Bureau considers:
      the type of offense, the length of sentence, the defendant's age,
      the defendant's release residence, the need for medical or other
      special treatment, and any placement recommendation made by the
      court.
    A Judicial Guide to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, supra, at 11.
    Further, a question as to whether or not the defendant has a "drug
    problem" could have an impact on whether the defendant would be
    eligible for prison drug abuse treatment programs. 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3621(e) (Substance abuse treatment).
      If counsel objects to material in the presentence report that
    could affect the defendant's service of sentence, the court may
    resolve the objection, but is not required to do so.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2007 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (d). The amendment conforms Rule 32(d) to the Supreme
    Court's decision in United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220 (2005).
    Booker held that the provision of the federal sentencing statute
    that makes the Guidelines mandatory, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3553(b)(1),
    violates the Sixth Amendment right to jury trial. With this
    provision severed and excised, the Court held, the Sentencing
    Reform Act "makes the Guidelines effectively advisory," and
    "requires a sentencing court to consider Guidelines ranges, see 18
    U.S.C.A. Sec. 3553(a)(4) (Supp. 2004), but it permits the court to
    tailor the sentence in light of other statutory concerns as well,
    see Sec. 3553(a) (Supp. 2004)." Id. at 245-46. Amended subdivision
    (d)(2)(F) makes clear that the court can instruct the probation
    office to gather and include in the presentence report any
    information relevant to the factors articulated in Sec. 3553(a).
    The rule contemplates that a request can be made either by the
    court as a whole requiring information affecting all cases or a
    class of cases, or by an individual judge in a particular case.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The Committee revised the text of subdivision (d) in response to
    public comments. In subdivision (d), the Committee revised the
    title to include the word "Advisory" in order better to reflect the
    guidelines' role under the Booker decision. It withdrew proposed
    subdivisions (k) and (h).
      Proposed subdivision (h) would have expanded the sentencing
    court's obligation to give notice to the parties when it intends to
    rely on grounds not identified in either the presentence report or
    the parties' submissions. The amendment was intended to respond to
    the courts' expanded discretion under Booker. In light of a number
    of recent decisions in the lower courts considering the proper
    scope of this obligation in light of Booker, the proposed amendment
    was withdrawn for further study.
      Subdivision (k), which would have required that courts use a
    specified judgment and statement of reasons form, was withdrawn
    because of the passage of Sec. 735 of the USA Patriot Improvement
    and Reauthorization Act. This legislation amended 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    994(w) to impose a statutory requirement that sentencing
    information for each case be provided on "the written statement of
    reasons form issued by the Judicial Conference and approved by the
    United States Sentencing Commission." The Criminal Law Committee,
    which had previously requested that the uniform collection of
    sentencing information be addressed by an amendment to the rules,
    withdrew that request in light of the enactment of the statutory
    requirement.
      Finally, here - as in the other Booker rules - the Committee
    deleted the reference in the Committee Note to the Fifth Amendment
    from the description of the Supreme Court's decision in Booker.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a). The Crime Victims' Rights Act, codified as 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3771(e), adopted a new definition of the term "crime
    victim." The new statutory definition has been incorporated in an
    amendment to Rule 1, which supersedes the provisions that have been
    deleted here.
      Subdivision (c)(1). This amendment implements the victim's
    statutory right under the Crime Victims' Rights Act to "full and
    timely restitution as provided in law." See 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(6). Whenever the law permits restitution, the presentence
    investigation report should contain information permitting the
    court to determine whether restitution is appropriate.
      Subdivision (d)(2)(B). This amendment implements the Crime
    Victims' Rights Act, codified at 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771. The amendment
    makes it clear that victim impact information should be treated in
    the same way as other information contained in the presentence
    report. It deletes language requiring victim impact information to
    be "verified" and "stated in a nonargumentative style" because that
    language does not appear in the other subparagraphs of Rule
    32(d)(2).
      Subdivision (i)(4). The deleted language, referring only to
    victims of crimes of violence or sexual abuse, has been superseded
    by the Crime Victims' Rights Act, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(e). The act
    defines the term "crime victim" without limiting it to certain
    crimes, and provides that crime victims, so defined, have a right
    to be reasonably heard at all public court proceedings regarding
    sentencing. A companion amendment to Rule 1(b) adopts the statutory
    definition as the definition of the term "victim" for purposes of
    the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and explains who may raise
    the rights of a victim, so the language in this subdivision is no
    longer needed.
      Subdivision (i)(4) has also been amended to incorporate the
    statutory language of the Crime Victims' Rights Act, which provides
    that victims have the right "to be reasonably heard" in judicial
    proceedings regarding sentencing. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(a)(4).
    The amended rule provides that the judge must speak to any victim
    present in the courtroom at sentencing. Absent unusual
    circumstances, any victim who is present should be allowed a
    reasonable opportunity to speak directly to the judge.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the text of the rule. In response to public
    comments, the Committee Note was amended to make it clear that
    absent unusual circumstances any victim who is in the courtroom
    should have a reasonable opportunity to speak directly to the
    judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (d)(2)(G). Rule 32.2(a) requires that the indictment
    or information provide notice to the defendant of the government's
    intent to seek forfeiture as part of the sentence. The amendment
    provides that the same notice be provided as part of the
    presentence report to the court. This will ensure timely
    consideration of the issues concerning forfeiture as part of the
    sentencing process.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made to the proposed amendment to Rule 32.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (d)(2). This technical and conforming amendment
    reorders two subparagraphs describing the information that may be
    included in the presentence report so that the provision
    authorizing the inclusion of any other information the court
    requires appears at the end of the paragraph. It also rephrases
    renumbered subdivision (d)(2)(F) for stylistic purposes.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1996 - Subd. (b)(1). Pub. L. 104-132, Sec. 207(a)(1), inserted at
    end "Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a presentence
    investigation and report, or other report containing information
    sufficient for the court to enter an order of restitution, as the
    court may direct, shall be required in any case in which
    restitution is required to be ordered."
      Subd. (b)(4)(F) to (H). Pub. L. 104-132, Sec. 207(a)(2), added
    subd. (b)(4)(F), and redesignated former subds. (b)(4)(F) and
    (b)(4)(G) as (b)(4)(G) and (b)(4)(H), respectively.
      1994 - Subd. (c)(3)(D). Pub. L. 103-322, Sec. 230101(b)(4),
    substituted "opportunity equivalent to that of the defendant's
    counsel" for "equivalent opportunity".
      Subd. (c)(3)(E). Pub. L. 103-322, Sec. 230101(b)(1)-(3), added
    subd. (c)(3)(E).
      Subd. (c)(4). Pub. L. 103-322, Sec. 230101(b)(5), (6),
    substituted "(D), and (E)" for "and (D)" and inserted "the victim,"
    before "or the attorney for the Government.".
      Subd. (f). Pub. L. 103-322, Sec. 230101(b)(7), added subd. (f).
      1986 - Subd. (c)(2)(B). Pub. L. 99-646 substituted "from" for
    "than".
      1984 - Subd. (a)(1). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(1), substituted
    new subd. (a)(1) for former subd. (a)(1) which read as follows:
      "(a) Sentence.
        "(1) Imposition of Sentence. Sentence shall be imposed without
      unreasonable delay. Before imposing sentence the court shall
          "(A) determine that the defendant and the defendant's counsel
        have had the opportunity to read and discuss the presentence
        investigation report made available pursuant to subdivision
        (c)(3)(A) or summary thereof made available pursuant to
        subdivision (c)(3)(B);
          "(B) afford counsel an opportunity to speak on behalf of the
        defendant; and
          "(C) address the defendant personally and ask the defendant
        if the defendant wishes to make a statement in the defendant's
        own behalf and to present any information in mitigation of
        punishment.
      The attorney for the government shall have an equivalent
      opportunity to speak to the court."
      Subd. (a)(2). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(2), inserted ",
    including any right to appeal the sentence," after "right to
    appeal" in first sentence.
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(3), inserted ", except that the court
    shall advise the defendant of any right to appeal his sentence"
    after "nolo contendere" in second sentence.
      Subd. (c)(1). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(4), amended first
    sentence generally. Prior to amendment, first sentence read as
    follows: "The probation service of the court shall make a
    presentence investigation and report to the court before the
    imposition of sentence or the granting of probation unless, with
    the permission of the court, the defendant waives a presentence
    investigation and report, or the court finds that there is in the
    record information sufficient to enable the meaningful exercise of
    sentencing discretion, and the court explains this finding on the
    record."
      Subd. (c)(2). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(5), amended subd.
    (c)(2) generally. Prior to amendment, subd. (c)(2) read as follows:
        "(2) Report. The presentence report shall contain - 
          "(A) any prior criminal record of the defendant;
          "(B) a statement of the circumstances of the commission of
        the offense and circumstances affecting the defendant's
        behavior;
          "(C) information concerning any harm, including financial,
        social, psychological, and physical harm, done to or loss
        suffered by any victim of the offense; and
          "(D) any other information that may aid the court in
        sentencing, including the restitution needs of any victim of
        the offense."
      Subd. (c)(3)(A). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(6), which directed
    the substitution of ", including the information required by
    subdivision (c)(2) but not including any final recommendation as to
    sentence," for "exclusive of any recommendations as to sentence",
    was executed by substituting the quotation for "exclusive of any
    recommendation as to sentence" to reflect the probable intent of
    Congress.
      Subd. (c)(3)(D). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(7), struck out "or
    the Parole Commission" before period at end.
      Subd. (c)(3)(F). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(8), substituted
    "pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3552(b)" for "or the Parole Commission
    pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Secs. 4205(c), 4252, 5010(e), or 5037(c)".
      Subd. (d). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(a)(9), struck out "imposition
    of sentence is suspended, or disposition is had under 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 4205(c)," after "is imposed,".
      1982 - Subdiv. (c)(2). Pub. L. 97-291 substituted provision
    directing that the presentence report contain any prior criminal
    record of the defendant, a statement of the circumstances of the
    commission of the offense and circumstances affecting the
    defendant's behavior, information concerning any harm, including
    financial, social, psychological, and physical harm, done to or
    loss suffered by any victim of the offense, and any other
    information that may aid the court in sentencing, including the
    restitution need of any victim of the offense, for provision
    requiring that the report of the presentence investigation shall
    contain any prior criminal record of the defendant and such
    information about his characteristics, his financial condition and
    the circumstances affecting his behavior as might be helpful in
    imposing sentence or in granting probation or in the correctional
    treatment of the defendant, and such other information as might be
    required by the court.
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subds. (a)(1) and (c)(1), (3)(A),
    (D) generally.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1996 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 104-132 to be effective, to extent
    constitutionally permissible, for sentencing proceedings in cases
    in which defendant is convicted on or after Apr. 24, 1996, see
    section 211 of Pub. L. 104-132, set out as a note under section
    2248 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1994 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 103-322 effective Dec. 1, 1994, see section
    230101(c) of Pub. L. 103-322, set out as a Victim's Right of
    Allocution in Sentencing note under section 2074 of Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1986 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 25(b) of Pub. L. 99-646 provided that: "The amendment
    made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the taking effect of
    the amendment made by section 215(a)(5) of the Comprehensive Crime
    Control Act of 1984 [Sec. 215(a)(5) of Pub. L. 98-473, effective
    Nov. 1, 1987]."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-473 effective Nov. 1, 1987, and
    applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of
    such amendment, see section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473, set out as
    an Effective Date note under section 3551 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1982 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 97-291 effective Oct. 14, 1982, see section
    9(a) of Pub. L. 97-291 set out as an Effective Date note under
    section 1512 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1979 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by abrogation of subd. (f) by order of the
    United States Supreme Court of Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1,
    1980, see section 1(1) of Pub. L. 96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat.
    326, set out as a note under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary
    and Judicial Procedure.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974, and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 32.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 32.1. Revoking or Modifying Probation or Supervised Release

-STATUTE-
      (a) Initial Appearance.
        (1) Person In Custody. A person held in custody for violating
      probation or supervised release must be taken without unnecessary
      delay before a magistrate judge.
          (A) If the person is held in custody in the district where an
        alleged violation occurred, the initial appearance must be in
        that district.
          (B) If the person is held in custody in a district other than
        where an alleged violation occurred, the initial appearance
        must be in that district, or in an adjacent district if the
        appearance can occur more promptly there.

        (2) Upon a Summons. When a person appears in response to a
      summons for violating probation or supervised release, a
      magistrate judge must proceed under this rule.
        (3) Advice. The judge must inform the person of the following:
          (A) the alleged violation of probation or supervised release;
          (B) the person's right to retain counsel or to request that
        counsel be appointed if the person cannot obtain counsel; and
          (C) the person's right, if held in custody, to a preliminary
        hearing under Rule 32.1(b)(1).

        (4) Appearance in the District With Jurisdiction. If the person
      is arrested or appears in the district that has jurisdiction to
      conduct a revocation hearing - either originally or by transfer
      of jurisdiction - the court must proceed under Rule 32.1(b)-(e).
        (5) Appearance in a District Lacking Jurisdiction. If the
      person is arrested or appears in a district that does not have
      jurisdiction to conduct a revocation hearing, the magistrate
      judge must:
          (A) if the alleged violation occurred in the district of
        arrest, conduct a preliminary hearing under Rule 32.1(b) and
        either:
            (i) transfer the person to the district that has
          jurisdiction, if the judge finds probable cause to believe
          that a violation occurred; or
            (ii) dismiss the proceedings and so notify the court that
          has jurisdiction, if the judge finds no probable cause to
          believe that a violation occurred; or

          (B) if the alleged violation did not occur in the district of
        arrest, transfer the person to the district that has
        jurisdiction if:
            (i) the government produces certified copies of the
          judgment, warrant, and warrant application, or produces
          copies of those certified documents by reliable electronic
          means; and
            (ii) the judge finds that the person is the same person
          named in the warrant.

        (6) Release or Detention. The magistrate judge may release or
      detain the person under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3143(a)(1) pending further
      proceedings. The burden of establishing by clear and convincing
      evidence that the person will not flee or pose a danger to any
      other person or to the community rests with the person.

      (b) Revocation.
        (1) Preliminary Hearing.
          (A) In General. If a person is in custody for violating a
        condition of probation or supervised release, a magistrate
        judge must promptly conduct a hearing to determine whether
        there is probable cause to believe that a violation occurred.
        The person may waive the hearing.
          (B) Requirements. The hearing must be recorded by a court
        reporter or by a suitable recording device. The judge must give
        the person:
            (i) notice of the hearing and its purpose, the alleged
          violation, and the person's right to retain counsel or to
          request that counsel be appointed if the person cannot obtain
          counsel;
            (ii) an opportunity to appear at the hearing and present
          evidence; and
            (iii) upon request, an opportunity to question any adverse
          witness, unless the judge determines that the interest of
          justice does not require the witness to appear.

          (C) Referral. If the judge finds probable cause, the judge
        must conduct a revocation hearing. If the judge does not find
        probable cause, the judge must dismiss the proceeding.

        (2) Revocation Hearing. Unless waived by the person, the court
      must hold the revocation hearing within a reasonable time in the
      district having jurisdiction. The person is entitled to:
          (A) written notice of the alleged violation;
          (B) disclosure of the evidence against the person;
          (C) an opportunity to appear, present evidence, and question
        any adverse witness unless the court determines that the
        interest of justice does not require the witness to appear;
          (D) notice of the person's right to retain counsel or to
        request that counsel be appointed if the person cannot obtain
        counsel; and
          (E) an opportunity to make a statement and present any
        information in mitigation.

      (c) Modification.
        (1) In General. Before modifying the conditions of probation or
      supervised release, the court must hold a hearing, at which the
      person has the right to counsel and an opportunity to make a
      statement and present any information in mitigation.
        (2) Exceptions. A hearing is not required if:
          (A) the person waives the hearing; or
          (B) the relief sought is favorable to the person and does not
        extend the term of probation or of supervised release; and
          (C) an attorney for the government has received notice of the
        relief sought, has had a reasonable opportunity to object, and
        has not done so.

      (d) Disposition of the Case. The court's disposition of the case
    is governed by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3563 and Sec. 3565 (probation) and
    Sec. 3583 (supervised release).
      (e) Producing a Statement. Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at a
    hearing under this rule. If a party fails to comply with a Rule
    26.2 order to produce a witness's statement, the court must not
    consider that witness's testimony.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Dec. 1, 1980; amended Pub. L. 99-646,
    Sec. 12(b), Nov. 10, 1986, 100 Stat. 3594; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug.
    1, 1987; Apr. 25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec.
    1, 1991; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec.
    1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec.
    1, 2006; Apr. 28, 2010, eff. Dec. 1, 2010.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979            
      Note to Subdivision (a)(1). Since Morrissey v. Brewer, 408 U.S.
    471 (1972), and Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U.S. 778 (1973), it is
    clear that a probationer can no longer be denied due process in
    reliance on the dictum in Escoe v. Zerbst, 295 U.S. 490, 492
    (1935), that probation is an "act of grace." See Van Alstyne, The
    Demise of the Right-Privilege Distinction in Constitutional Law, 81
    Harv.L.Rev. 1439 (1968); President's Commission on Law Enforcement
    and Administration of Justice. Task Force Report: Corrections 86
    (1967).
      Subdivision (a)(1) requires, consistent with the holding in
    Scarpelli, that a prompt preliminary hearing must be held whenever
    "a probationer is held in custody on the ground that he has
    violated a condition of his probation." See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3653
    regarding arrest of the probationer with or without a warrant. If
    there is to be a revocation hearing but there has not been a
    holding in custody for a probation violation, there need not be a
    preliminary hearing. It was the fact of such a holding in custody
    "which prompted the Court to determine that a preliminary as well
    as a final revocation hearing was required to afford the petitioner
    due process of law." United States v. Tucker, 524 F.2d 77 (5th Cir.
    1975). Consequently, a preliminary hearing need not be held if the
    probationer was at large and was not arrested but was allowed to
    appear voluntarily, United States v. Strada, 503 F.2d 1081 (8th
    Cir. 1974), or in response to a show cause order which "merely
    requires his appearance in court," United States v. Langford, 369
    F.Supp. 1107 (N.D.Ill. 1973); if the probationer was in custody
    pursuant to a new charge, Thomas v. United States, 391 F.Supp. 202
    (W.D.Pa. 1975), or pursuant to a final conviction of a subsequent
    offense, United States v. Tucker, supra; or if he was arrested but
    obtained his release.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(A), (B) and (C) list the requirements for the
    preliminary hearing, as developed in Morrissey and made applicable
    to probation revocation cases in Scarpelli. Under (A), the
    probationer is to be given notice of the hearing and its purpose
    and of the alleged violation of probation. "Although the
    allegations in a motion to revoke probation need not be as specific
    as an indictment, they must be sufficient to apprise the
    probationer of the conditions of his probation which he is alleged
    to have violated, as well as the dates and events which support the
    charge." Kartman v. Parratt, 397 F.Supp. 531 (D.Nebr. 1975). Under
    (B), the probationer is permitted to appear and present evidence in
    his own behalf. And under (C), upon request by the probationer,
    adverse witnesses shall be made available for questioning unless
    the magistrate determines that the informant would be subjected to
    risk or harm if his identity were disclosed.
      Subdivision (a)(1)(D) provides for notice to the probationer of
    his right to be represented by counsel at the preliminary hearing.
    Although Scarpelli did not impose as a constitutional requirement a
    right to counsel in all instances, under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3006A(b) a
    defendant is entitled to be represented by counsel whenever charged
    "with a violation of probation."
      The federal magistrate (see definition in rule 54(c)) is to keep
    a record of what transpires at the hearing and, if he finds
    probable cause of a violation, hold the probationer for a
    revocation hearing. The probationer may be released pursuant to
    rule 46(c) pending the revocation hearing.
      Note to Subdivision (a)(2). Subdivision (a)(2) mandates a final
    revocation hearing within a reasonable time to determine whether
    the probationer has, in fact, violated the conditions of his
    probation and whether his probation should be revoked. Ordinarily
    this time will be measured from the time of the probable cause
    finding (if a preliminary hearing was held) or of the issuance of
    an order to show cause. However, what constitutes a reasonable time
    must be determined on the facts of the particular case, such as
    whether the probationer is available or could readily be made
    available. If the probationer has been convicted of and is
    incarcerated for a new crime, and that conviction is the basis of
    the pending revocation proceedings, it would be relevant whether
    the probationer waived appearance at the revocation hearing.
      The hearing required by rule 32.1(a)(2) is not a formal trial;
    the usual rules of evidence need not be applied. See Morrissey v.
    Brewer, supra ("the process should be flexible enough to consider
    evidence including letters, affidavits, and other material that
    would not be admissible in an adversary criminal trial"); Rule
    1101(d)(e) of the Federal Rules of Evidence (rules not applicable
    to proceedings "granting or revoking probation"). Evidence that
    would establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt is not required to
    support an order revoking probation. United States v. Francischine,
    512 F.2d 827 (5th Cir. 1975). This hearing may be waived by the
    probationer.
      Subdivisions (a)(2)(A)-(E) list the rights to which a probationer
    is entitled at the final revocation hearing. The final hearing is
    less a summary one because the decision under consideration is the
    ultimate decision to revoke rather than a mere determination of
    probable cause. Thus, the probationer has certain rights not
    granted at the preliminary hearing: (i) the notice under (A) must
    by written; (ii) under (B) disclosure of all the evidence against
    the probationer is required; and (iii) under (D) the probationer
    does not have to specifically request the right to confront adverse
    witnesses, and the court may not limit the opportunity to question
    the witnesses against him.
      Under subdivision (a)(2)(E) the probationer must be given notice
    of his right to be represented by counsel. Although Scarpelli holds
    that the Constitution does not compel counsel in all probation
    revocation hearings, under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3006A(b) a defendant is
    entitled to be represented by counsel whenever charged "with a
    violation of probation."
      Revocation of probation is proper if the court finds a violation
    of the conditions of probation and that such violation warrants
    revocation. Revocation followed by imprisonment is an appropriate
    disposition if the court finds on the basis of the original offense
    and the intervening conduct of the probationer that:
        (i) confinement is necessary to protect the public from further
      criminal activity by the offender; or
        (ii) the offender is in need of correctional treatment which
      can most effectively be provided if he is confined; or
        (iii) it would unduly depreciate the seriousness of the
      violation if probation were not revoked.
    See American Bar Association, Standards Relating to Probation Sec.
    5.1 (Approved Draft, 1970).
      If probation is revoked, the probationer may be required to serve
    the sentence originally imposed, or any lesser sentence, and if
    imposition of sentence was suspended he may receive any sentence
    which might have been imposed. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3653. When a split
    sentence is imposed under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3651 and probation is
    subsequently revoked, the probationer is entitled to credit for the
    time served in jail but not for the time he was on probation.
    Thomas v. United States, 327 F.2d 795 (10th Cir.), cert, denied 377
    U.S. 1000 (1964); Schley v. Peyton, 280 F.Supp. 307 (W.D.Va. 1968).
      Note to Subdivision (b). Subdivision (b) concerns proceedings on
    modification of probation (as provided for in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3651).
    The probationer should have the right to apply to the sentencing
    court for a clarification or change of conditions. American Bar
    Association, Standards Relating to Probation Sec. 3.1(c) (Approved
    Draft, 1970). This avenue is important for two reasons: (1) the
    probationer should be able to obtain resolution of a dispute over
    an ambiguous term or the meaning of a condition without first
    having to violate it; and (2) in cases of neglect, overwork, or
    simply unreasonableness on the part of the probation officer, the
    probationer should have recourse to the sentencing court when a
    condition needs clarification or modification.
      Probation conditions should be subject to modification, for the
    sentencing court must be able to respond to changes in the
    probationer's circumstances as well as new ideas and methods of
    rehabilitation. See generally ABA Standards, supra, Sec. 3.3. The
    Sentencing court is given the authority to shorten the term or end
    probation early upon its own motion without a hearing. And while
    the modification of probation is a part of the sentencing
    procedure, so that the probationer is ordinarily entitled to a
    hearing and presence of counsel, a modification favorable to the
    probationer may be accomplished without a hearing in the presence
    of defendant and counsel. United States v. Bailey, 343 F.Supp. 76
    (W.D.Mo. 1971).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1989 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments recognize that convicted defendants may be on
    supervised release as well as on probation. See 18 U.S.C. Secs.
    3583, and 3624(e).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The addition of subdivision (c) is one of several amendments that
    extend Rule 26.2 to Rules 32(f), 32.1, 46, and Rule 8 of the Rules
    Governing Proceedings under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255. As noted in the
    Committee Note to Rule 26.2, the primary reason for extending that
    Rule to other hearings and proceedings rests heavily upon the
    compelling need for accurate information affecting the witnesses'
    credibility. While that need is certainly clear in a trial on the
    merits, it is equally compelling, if not more so, in other pretrial
    and post-trial proceedings in which both the prosecution and
    defense have high interests at stake. In the case of revocation or
    modification of probation or supervised release proceedings, not
    only is the defendant's liberty interest at stake, the government
    has a stake in protecting the interests of the community.
      Requiring production of witness statements at hearings conducted
    under Rule 32.1 will enhance the procedural due process which the
    rule now provides and which the Supreme Court required in Morrissey
    v. Brewer, 408 U.S. 471 (1972) and Gagnon v. Scarpelli, 411 U.S.
    778 (1973). Access to prior statements of a witness will enhance
    the ability of both the defense and prosecution to test the
    credibility of the other side's witnesses under Rule 32.1(a)(1),
    (a)(2), and (b) and thus will assist the court in assessing
    credibility.
      A witness's statement must be produced only if the witness
    testifies.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 32.1 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Rule 32.1 has been completely revised and expanded. The Committee
    believed that it was important to spell out more completely in this
    rule the various procedural steps that must be met when dealing
    with a revocation or modification of probation or supervised
    release. To that end, some language formerly located in Rule 40 has
    been moved to revised Rule 32.1. Throughout the rule, the terms
    "magistrate judge," and "court" (see revised Rule 1(b)
    (Definitions)) are used to reflect that in revocation cases,
    initial proceedings in both felony and misdemeanor cases will
    normally be conducted before a magistrate judge, although a
    district judge may also conduct them. But a district judge must
    make the revocation decision if the offense of conviction was a
    felony. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3401(i) (recognizing that district judge
    may designate a magistrate judge to conduct a hearing and submit
    proposed findings of fact and recommendations).
      Revised Rule 32.1(a)(1)-(4) is new material. Presently, there is
    no provision in the rules for conducting initial appearances for
    defendants charged with violating probation or supervised release -
    although some districts apply such procedures. Although the rule
    labels these proceedings as initial appearances, the Committee
    believed that it was best to separate those proceedings from Rule 5
    proceedings, because the procedures differ for persons who are
    charged with violating conditions of probation or supervised
    release.
      The Committee is also aware that, in some districts, it is not
    the practice to have an initial appearance for a revocation of
    probation or supervised release proceeding. Although Rule 32.1(a)
    will require such an appearance, nothing in the rule prohibits a
    court from combining the initial appearance proceeding, if convened
    consistent with the "without unnecessary delay" time requirement of
    the rule, with the preliminary hearing under Rule 32.1(b).
      Revised Rule 32.1(a)(5) is derived from current Rule 40(d).
      Revised Rule 32.1(a)(6), which is derived from current Rule
    46(c), provides that the defendant bears the burden of showing that
    he or she will not flee or pose a danger pending a hearing on the
    revocation of probation or supervised release. The Committee
    believes that the new language is not a substantive change because
    it makes no change in practice.
      Rule 32.1(b)(1)(B)(iii) and Rule 32.1(b)(2)(C) address the
    ability of a releasee to question adverse witnesses at the
    preliminary and revocation hearings. Those provisions recognize
    that the court should apply a balancing test at the hearing itself
    when considering the releasee's asserted right to cross-examine
    adverse witnesses. The court is to balance the person's interest in
    the constitutionally guaranteed right to confrontation against the
    government's good cause for denying it. See, e.g., Morrissey v.
    Brewer, 408 U.S. 471, 489 (1972); United States v. Comito, 177 F.3d
    1166 (9th Cir. 1999); United States v. Walker, 117 F.3d 417 (9th
    Cir. 1997); United States v. Zentgraf, 20 F.3d 906 (8th Cir. 1994).
      Rule 32.1(c)(2)(A) permits the person to waive a hearing to
    modify the conditions of probation or supervised release. Although
    that language is new to the rule, the Committee believes that it
    reflects current practice.
      The remainder of revised Rule 32.1 is derived from the current
    Rule 32.1.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      The amendments to Rule 32.1(b) and (c) are intended to address a
    gap in the rule. As noted by the court in United States v. Frazier,
    283 F.3d 1242 (11th Cir. 2002) (per curiam), there is no explicit
    provision in current Rule 32.1 for allocution rights for a person
    upon revocation of supervised release. In that case the court noted
    that several circuits had concluded that the right to allocution in
    Rule 32 extended to supervised release revocation hearings. See
    United States v. Patterson, 128 F.3d 1259, 1261 (8th Cir. 1997)
    (Rule 32 right to allocution applies); United States v. Rodriguez,
    23 F.3d 919, 921 (5th Cir. 1997) (right of allocution, in Rule 32,
    applies at revocation proceeding). But the court agreed with the
    Sixth Circuit that the allocution right in Rule 32 was not
    incorporated into Rule 32.1. See United States v. Waters, 158 F.3d
    933 (6th Cir. 1998) (allocution right in Rule 32 does not apply to
    revocation proceedings). The Frazier court observed that the
    problem with the incorporation approach is that it would require
    application of other provisions specifically applicable to
    sentencing proceedings under Rule 32, but not expressly addressed
    in Rule 32.1. 283 F.3d at 1245. The court, however, believed that
    it would be "better practice" for courts to provide for allocution
    at revocation proceedings and stated that "[t]he right of
    allocution seems both important and firmly embedded in our
    jurisprudence." Id.
      The amended rule recognizes the importance of allocution and now
    explicitly recognizes that right at Rule 32.1(b)(2) revocation
    hearings, and extends it as well to Rule 32.1(c)(1) modification
    hearings where the court may decide to modify the terms or
    conditions of the defendant's probation. In each instance the court
    is required to give the defendant the opportunity to make a
    statement and present any mitigating information.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    changes to Rule 32.1 following publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a)(5)(B)(i). Rule 32.1(a)(5)(B)(i) has been amended
    to permit the magistrate judge to accept a judgment, warrant, and
    warrant application by reliable electronic means. Currently, the
    rule requires the government to produce certified copies of those
    documents. This amendment parallels similar changes to Rules 5 and
    41.
      The amendment reflects a number of significant improvements in
    technology. First, receiving documents by facsimile has become very
    commonplace and many courts are now equipped to receive filings by
    electronic means, and indeed, some courts encourage or require that
    certain documents be filed by electronic means. Second, the
    technology has advanced to the state where such filings could be
    sent from, and received at, locations outside the courthouse.
    Third, electronic media can now provide improved quality of
    transmission and security measures. In short, in a particular case,
    using electronic media to transmit a document might be just as
    reliable and efficient as using a facsimile.
      The term "electronic" is used to provide some flexibility to the
    rule and make allowance for further technological advances in
    transmitting data. The Committee envisions that the term
    "electronic" would include use of facsimile transmissions.
      The rule requires that if electronic means are to be used to
    transmit a warrant to the magistrate judge, the means used be
    "reliable." While the rule does not further define that term, the
    Committee envisions that a court or magistrate judge would make
    that determination as a local matter. In deciding whether a
    particular electronic means, or media, would be reliable, the court
    might consider first, the expected quality and clarity of the
    transmission. For example, is it possible to read the contents of
    the warrant in its entirety, as though it were the original or a
    clean photocopy? Second, the court may wish to consider whether
    security measures are available to insure that the transmission is
    not compromised. In this regard, most courts are now equipped to
    require that certain documents contain a digital signature, or some
    other similar system for restricting access. Third, the court may
    consider whether there are reliable means of preserving the
    document for later use.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made
    minor clarifying changes in the published rule at the suggestion of
    the Style Committee.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2010 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a)(6). This amendment is designed to end confusion
    regarding the applicability of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3143(a) to release or
    detention decisions involving persons on probation or supervised
    release, and to clarify the burden of proof in such proceedings.
    Confusion regarding the applicability of Sec. 3143(a) arose because
    several subsections of the statute are ill suited to proceedings
    involving the revocation of probation or supervised release. See
    United States v. Mincey, 482 F. Supp. 2d 161 (D. Mass. 2007). The
    amendment makes clear that only subsection 3143(a)(1) is applicable
    in this context.
      The current rule provides that the person seeking release must
    bear the burden of establishing that he or she will not flee or
    pose a danger but does not specify the standard of proof that must
    be met. The amendment incorporates into the rule the standard of
    clear and convincing evidence.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made after the amendment was released for public
    comment.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1986 - Subd. (b). Pub. L. 99-646 inserted "to be" after "relief"
    and inserted provision relating to objection from the attorney for
    the government after notice of the proposed relief and extension of
    the term of probation as not favorable to the probationer for the
    purposes of this rule.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1986 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 12(c)(2) of Pub. L. 99-646 provided that: "The amendments
    made by subsection (b) [amending this rule] shall take effect 30
    days after the date of enactment of this Act [Nov. 10, 1986]."

                          EFFECTIVE DATE OF RULE                      
      This rule added by order of the United States Supreme Court of
    Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1, 1980, see section 1(1) of Pub. L.
    96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 326, set out as a note under section
    2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 32.2                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 32.2. Criminal Forfeiture

-STATUTE-
      (a) Notice to the Defendant. A court must not enter a judgment of
    forfeiture in a criminal proceeding unless the indictment or
    information contains notice to the defendant that the government
    will seek the forfeiture of property as part of any sentence in
    accordance with the applicable statute. The notice should not be
    designated as a count of the indictment or information. The
    indictment or information need not identify the property subject to
    forfeiture or specify the amount of any forfeiture money judgment
    that the government seeks.
      (b) Entering a Preliminary Order of Forfeiture.
        (1) Forfeiture Phase of the Trial.
          (A) Forfeiture Determinations. As soon as practical after a
        verdict or finding of guilty, or after a plea of guilty or nolo
        contendere is accepted, on any count in an indictment or
        information regarding which criminal forfeiture is sought, the
        court must determine what property is subject to forfeiture
        under the applicable statute. If the government seeks
        forfeiture of specific property, the court must determine
        whether the government has established the requisite nexus
        between the property and the offense. If the government seeks a
        personal money judgment, the court must determine the amount of
        money that the defendant will be ordered to pay.
          (B) Evidence and Hearing. The court's determination may be
        based on evidence already in the record, including any written
        plea agreement, and on any additional evidence or information
        submitted by the parties and accepted by the court as relevant
        and reliable. If the forfeiture is contested, on either party's
        request the court must conduct a hearing after the verdict or
        finding of guilty.

        (2) Preliminary Order.
          (A) Contents of a Specific Order. If the court finds that
        property is subject to forfeiture, it must promptly enter a
        preliminary order of forfeiture setting forth the amount of any
        money judgment, directing the forfeiture of specific property,
        and directing the forfeiture of any substitute property if the
        government has met the statutory criteria. The court must enter
        the order without regard to any third party's interest in the
        property. Determining whether a third party has such an
        interest must be deferred until any third party files a claim
        in an ancillary proceeding under Rule 32.2(c).
          (B) Timing. Unless doing so is impractical, the court must
        enter the preliminary order sufficiently in advance of
        sentencing to allow the parties to suggest revisions or
        modifications before the order becomes final as to the
        defendant under Rule 32.2(b)(4).
          (C) General Order. If, before sentencing, the court cannot
        identify all the specific property subject to forfeiture or
        calculate the total amount of the money judgment, the court may
        enter a forfeiture order that:
            (i) lists any identified property;
            (ii) describes other property in general terms; and
            (iii) states that the order will be amended under Rule
          32.2(e)(1) when additional specific property is identified or
          the amount of the money judgment has been calculated.

        (3) Seizing Property. The entry of a preliminary order of
      forfeiture authorizes the Attorney General (or a designee) to
      seize the specific property subject to forfeiture; to conduct any
      discovery the court considers proper in identifying, locating, or
      disposing of the property; and to commence proceedings that
      comply with any statutes governing third-party rights. The court
      may include in the order of forfeiture conditions reasonably
      necessary to preserve the property's value pending any appeal.
        (4) Sentence and Judgment.
          (A) When Final. At sentencing - or at any time before
        sentencing if the defendant consents - the preliminary
        forfeiture order becomes final as to the defendant. If the
        order directs the defendant to forfeit specific property, it
        remains preliminary as to third parties until the ancillary
        proceeding is concluded under Rule 32.2(c).
          (B) Notice and Inclusion in the Judgment. The court must
        include the forfeiture when orally announcing the sentence or
        must otherwise ensure that the defendant knows of the
        forfeiture at sentencing. The court must also include the
        forfeiture order, directly or by reference, in the judgment,
        but the court's failure to do so may be corrected at any time
        under Rule 36.
          (C) Time to Appeal. The time for the defendant or the
        government to file an appeal from the forfeiture order, or from
        the court's failure to enter an order, begins to run when
        judgment is entered. If the court later amends or declines to
        amend a forfeiture order to include additional property under
        Rule 32.2(e), the defendant or the government may file an
        appeal regarding that property under Federal Rule of Appellate
        Procedure 4(b). The time for that appeal runs from the date
        when the order granting or denying the amendment becomes final.

        (5) Jury Determination.
          (A) Retaining the Jury. In any case tried before a jury, if
        the indictment or information states that the government is
        seeking forfeiture, the court must determine before the jury
        begins deliberating whether either party requests that the jury
        be retained to determine the forfeitability of specific
        property if it returns a guilty verdict.
          (B) Special Verdict Form. If a party timely requests to have
        the jury determine forfeiture, the government must submit a
        proposed Special Verdict Form listing each property subject to
        forfeiture and asking the jury to determine whether the
        government has established the requisite nexus between the
        property and the offense committed by the defendant.

        (6) Notice of the Forfeiture Order.
          (A) Publishing and Sending Notice. If the court orders the
        forfeiture of specific property, the government must publish
        notice of the order and send notice to any person who
        reasonably appears to be a potential claimant with standing to
        contest the forfeiture in the ancillary proceeding.
          (B) Content of the Notice. The notice must describe the
        forfeited property, state the times under the applicable
        statute when a petition contesting the forfeiture must be
        filed, and state the name and contact information for the
        government attorney to be served with the petition.
          (C) Means of Publication; Exceptions to Publication
        Requirement. Publication must take place as described in
        Supplemental Rule G(4)(a)(iii) of the Federal Rules of Civil
        Procedure, and may be by any means described in Supplemental
        Rule G(4)(a)(iv). Publication is unnecessary if any exception
        in Supplemental Rule G(4)(a)(i) applies.
          (D) Means of Sending the Notice. The notice may be sent in
        accordance with Supplemental Rules G(4)(b)(iii)-(v) of the
        Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.

        (7) Interlocutory Sale. At any time before entry of a final
      forfeiture order, the court, in accordance with Supplemental Rule
      G(7) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, may order the
      interlocutory sale of property alleged to be forfeitable.

      (c) Ancillary Proceeding; Entering a Final Order of Forfeiture.
        (1) In General. If, as prescribed by statute, a third party
      files a petition asserting an interest in the property to be
      forfeited, the court must conduct an ancillary proceeding, but no
      ancillary proceeding is required to the extent that the
      forfeiture consists of a money judgment.
          (A) In the ancillary proceeding, the court may, on motion,
        dismiss the petition for lack of standing, for failure to state
        a claim, or for any other lawful reason. For purposes of the
        motion, the facts set forth in the petition are assumed to be
        true.
          (B) After disposing of any motion filed under Rule
        32.2(c)(1)(A) and before conducting a hearing on the petition,
        the court may permit the parties to conduct discovery in
        accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure if the
        court determines that discovery is necessary or desirable to
        resolve factual issues. When discovery ends, a party may move
        for summary judgment under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 56.

        (2) Entering a Final Order. When the ancillary proceeding ends,
      the court must enter a final order of forfeiture by amending the
      preliminary order as necessary to account for any third-party
      rights. If no third party files a timely petition, the
      preliminary order becomes the final order of forfeiture if the
      court finds that the defendant (or any combination of defendants
      convicted in the case) had an interest in the property that is
      forfeitable under the applicable statute. The defendant may not
      object to the entry of the final order on the ground that the
      property belongs, in whole or in part, to a codefendant or third
      party; nor may a third party object to the final order on the
      ground that the third party had an interest in the property.
        (3) Multiple Petitions. If multiple third-party petitions are
      filed in the same case, an order dismissing or granting one
      petition is not appealable until rulings are made on all the
      petitions, unless the court determines that there is no just
      reason for delay.
        (4) Ancillary Proceeding Not Part of Sentencing. An ancillary
      proceeding is not part of sentencing.

      (d) Stay Pending Appeal. If a defendant appeals from a conviction
    or an order of forfeiture, the court may stay the order of
    forfeiture on terms appropriate to ensure that the property remains
    available pending appellate review. A stay does not delay the
    ancillary proceeding or the determination of a third party's rights
    or interests. If the court rules in favor of any third party while
    an appeal is pending, the court may amend the order of forfeiture
    but must not transfer any property interest to a third party until
    the decision on appeal becomes final, unless the defendant consents
    in writing or on the record.
      (e) Subsequently Located Property; Substitute Property.
        (1) In General. On the government's motion, the court may at
      any time enter an order of forfeiture or amend an existing order
      of forfeiture to include property that:
          (A) is subject to forfeiture under an existing order of
        forfeiture but was located and identified after that order was
        entered; or
          (B) is substitute property that qualifies for forfeiture
        under an applicable statute.

        (2) Procedure. If the government shows that the property is
      subject to forfeiture under Rule 32.2(e)(1), the court must:
          (A) enter an order forfeiting that property, or amend an
        existing preliminary or final order to include it; and
          (B) if a third party files a petition claiming an interest in
        the property, conduct an ancillary proceeding under Rule
        32.2(c).

        (3) Jury Trial Limited. There is no right to a jury trial under
      Rule 32.2(e).

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 17, 2000, eff. Dec. 1, 2000; amended Apr. 29, 2002,
    eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2000                  
      Rule 32.2 consolidates a number of procedural rules governing the
    forfeiture of assets in a criminal case. Existing Rules 7(c)(2),
    31(e) and 32(d)(2) are also amended to conform to the new rule. In
    addition, the forfeiture-related provisions of Rule 38(e) are
    stricken.
      Subdivision (a). Subdivision (a) is derived from Rule 7(c)(2)
    which provides that notwithstanding statutory authority for the
    forfeiture of property following a criminal conviction, no
    forfeiture order may be entered unless the defendant was given
    notice of the forfeiture in the indictment or information. As
    courts have held, subdivision (a) is not intended to require that
    an itemized list of the property to be forfeited appear in the
    indictment or information itself. The subdivision reflects the
    trend in caselaw interpreting present Rule 7(c). Under the most
    recent cases, Rule 7(c) sets forth a requirement that the
    government give the defendant notice that it will be seeking
    forfeiture in accordance with the applicable statute. It does not
    require a substantive allegation in which the property subject to
    forfeiture, or the defendant's interest in the property, must be
    described in detail. See United States v. DeFries, 129 F.3d 1293
    (D.C.Cir. 1997) (it is not necessary to specify in either the
    indictment or a bill of particulars that the government is seeking
    forfeiture of a particular asset, such as the defendant's salary;
    to comply with Rule 7(c), the government need only put the
    defendant on notice that it will seek to forfeit everything subject
    to forfeiture under the applicable statute, such as all property
    "acquired or maintained" as a result of a RICO violation). See also
    United States v. Moffitt, Zwerling & Kemler, P.C., 83 F.3d 660, 665
    (4th Cir. 1996), aff'g 846 F. Supp. 463 (E.D. Va. 1994) (Moffitt I)
    (indictment need not list each asset subject to forfeiture; under
    Rule 7(c), this can be done with bill of particulars); United
    States v. Voigt, 89 F.3d 1050 (3rd Cir. 1996) (court may amend
    order of forfeiture at any time to include substitute assets).
      Subdivision (b). Subdivision (b) replaces Rule 31(e) which
    provides that the jury in a criminal case must return a special
    verdict "as to the extent of the interest or property subject to
    forfeiture." See United States v. Saccoccia, 58 F.3d 754 (1st Cir.
    1995) (Rule 31(e) only applies to jury trials; no special verdict
    required when defendant waives right to jury on forfeiture issues).
      One problem under Rule 31(e) concerns the scope of the
    determination that must be made prior to entering an order of
    forfeiture. This issue is the same whether the determination is
    made by the court or by the jury.
      As mentioned, the current rule requires the jury to return a
    special verdict "as to the extent of the interest or property
    subject to forfeiture." Some courts interpret this to mean only
    that the jury must answer "yes" or "no" when asked if the property
    named in the indictment is subject to forfeiture under the terms of
    the forfeiture statute - e.g. was the property used to facilitate a
    drug offense? Other courts also ask the jury if the defendant has a
    legal interest in the forfeited property. Still other courts,
    including the Fourth Circuit, require the jury to determine the
    extent of the defendant's interest in the property vis a vis third
    parties. See United States v. Ham, 58 F.3d 78 (4th Cir. 1995) (case
    remanded to the district court to impanel a jury to determine, in
    the first instance, the extent of the defendant's forfeitable
    interest in the subject property).
      The notion that the "extent" of the defendant's interest must be
    established as part of the criminal trial is related to the fact
    that criminal forfeiture is an in personam action in which only the
    defendant's interest in the property may be forfeited. United
    States v. Riley, 78 F.3d 367 (8th Cir. 1996). When the criminal
    forfeiture statutes were first enacted in the 1970's, it was clear
    that a forfeiture of property other than the defendant's could not
    occur in a criminal case, but there was no mechanism designed to
    limit the forfeiture to the defendant's interest. Accordingly, Rule
    31(e) was drafted to make a determination of the "extent" of the
    defendant's interest part of the verdict.
      The problem is that third parties who might have an interest in
    the forfeited property are not parties to the criminal case. At the
    same time, a defendant who has no interest in property has no
    incentive, at trial, to dispute the government's forfeiture
    allegations. Thus, it was apparent by the 1980's that Rule 31(e)
    was an inadequate safeguard against the inadvertent forfeiture of
    property in which the defendant held no interest.
      In 1984, Congress addressed this problem when it enacted a
    statutory scheme whereby third party interests in criminally
    forfeited property are litigated by the court in an ancillary
    proceeding following the conclusion of the criminal case and the
    entry of a preliminary order of forfeiture. See 21 U.S.C. Sec.
    853(n); 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1963(l). Under this scheme, the court orders
    the forfeiture of the defendant's interest in the property -
    whatever that interest may be - in the criminal case. At that
    point, the court conducts a separate proceeding in which all
    potential third party claimants are given an opportunity to
    challenge the forfeiture by asserting a superior interest in the
    property. This proceeding does not involve relitigation of the
    forfeitability of the property; its only purpose is to determine
    whether any third party has a legal interest in the forfeited
    property.
      The notice provisions regarding the ancillary proceeding are
    equivalent to the notice provisions that govern civil forfeitures.
    Compare 21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(n)(1) with 19 U.S.C. Sec. 1607(a); see
    United States v. Bouler, 927 F. Supp. 911 (W.D.N.C. 1996) (civil
    notice rules apply to ancillary criminal proceedings). Notice is
    published and sent to third parties that have a potential interest.
    See United States v. BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. (In re
    Petition of Indosuez Bank), 916 F. Supp. 1276 (D.D.C. 1996)
    (discussing steps taken by government to provide notice of criminal
    forfeiture to third parties). If no one files a claim, or if all
    claims are denied following a hearing, the forfeiture becomes final
    and the United States is deemed to have clear title to the
    property. 21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(n)(7); United States v. Hentz, 1996 WL
    355327 (E.D. Pa. June 20, 1996) (once third party fails to file a
    claim in the ancillary proceeding, government has clear title under
    Sec. 853(n)(7) and can market the property notwithstanding third
    party's name on the deed).
      Thus, the ancillary proceeding has become the forum for
    determining the extent of the defendant's forfeitable interest in
    the property. This allows the court to conduct a proceeding in
    which all third party claimants can participate and which ensures
    that the property forfeited actually belongs to the defendant.
      Since the enactment of the ancillary proceeding statutes, the
    requirement in Rule 31(e) that the court (or jury) determine the
    extent of the defendant's interest in the property as part of the
    criminal trial has become an unnecessary anachronism that leads
    more often than not to duplication and a waste of judicial
    resources. There is no longer any reason to delay the conclusion of
    the criminal trial with a lengthy hearing over the extent of the
    defendant's interest in property when the same issues will have to
    be litigated a second time in the ancillary proceeding if someone
    files a claim challenging the forfeiture. For example, in United
    States v. Messino, 917 F. Supp. 1307 (N.D. Ill. 1996), the court
    allowed the defendant to call witnesses to attempt to establish
    that they, not he, were the true owners of the property. After the
    jury rejected this evidence and the property was forfeited, the
    court conducted an ancillary proceeding in which the same witnesses
    litigated their claims to the same property.
      A more sensible procedure would be for the court, once it (or a
    jury) determines that property was involved in the criminal offense
    for which the defendant has been convicted, to order the forfeiture
    of whatever interest a defendant may have in the property without
    having to determine exactly what that interest is. If third parties
    assert that they have an interest in all or part of the property,
    those interests can be adjudicated at one time in the ancillary
    proceeding.
      This approach would also address confusion that occurs in multi-
    defendant cases where it is clear that each defendant should
    forfeit whatever interest he may have in the property used to
    commit the offense, but it is not at all clear which defendant is
    the actual owner of the property. For example, suppose A and B are
    co-defendants in a drug and money laundering case in which the
    government seeks to forfeit property involved in the scheme that is
    held in B's name but of which A may be the true owner. It makes no
    sense to invest the court's time in determining which of the two
    defendants holds the interest that should be forfeited. Both
    defendants should forfeit whatever interest they may have.
    Moreover, if under the current rule the court were to find that A
    is the true owner of the property, then B would have the right to
    file a claim in the ancillary proceeding where he may attempt to
    recover the property despite his criminal conviction. United States
    v. Real Property in Waterboro, 64 F.3d 752 (1st Cir. 1995) (co-
    defendant in drug/money laundering case who is not alleged to be
    the owner of the property is considered a third party for the
    purpose of challenging the forfeiture of the other co-defendant's
    interest).
      The new rule resolves these difficulties by postponing the
    determination of the extent of the defendant's interest until the
    ancillary proceeding. As provided in (b)(1), the court, as soon as
    practicable after the verdict or finding of guilty in the criminal
    case, would determine if the property was subject to forfeiture in
    accordance with the applicable statute, e.g., whether the property
    represented the proceeds of the offense, was used to facilitate the
    offense, or was involved in the offense in some other way. The
    determination could be made based on the evidence in the record
    from the criminal trial or the facts set forth in a written plea
    agreement submitted to the court at the time of the defendant's
    guilty plea, or the court could hold a hearing to determine if the
    requisite relationship existed between the property and the
    offense. Subdivision (b)(2) provides that it is not necessary to
    determine at this stage what interest any defendant might have in
    the property. Instead, the court would order the forfeiture of
    whatever interest each defendant might have in the property and
    conduct the ancillary proceeding.
      Subdivision (b)(1) recognizes that there are different kinds of
    forfeiture judgments in criminal cases. One type is a personal
    judgment for a sum of money; another is a judgment forfeiting a
    specific asset. See, e.g., United States v. Voigt, 89 F.3d 1050 (3d
    Cir. 1996) (government is entitled to a personal money judgment
    equal to the amount involved in the money laundering offense, as
    well as order forfeiting specific assets involved in, or traceable
    to, the offense; in addition, if the statutory requirements are
    met, the government may be entitled to forfeit substitute assets);
    United States v. Cleveland, 1997 WL 537707 (E.D. La. Aug. 26,
    1997), modified, 1997 WL 602186 (E.D. La. Sept. 29, 1997)
    (government entitled to a money judgment equal to the amount of
    money defendant laundered in money laundering case). The finding
    the court is required to make will depend on the nature of the
    forfeiture judgment. A number of cases have approved use of money
    judgment forfeitures. The Committee takes no position on the
    correctness of those rulings.
      To the extent that the government is seeking forfeiture of a
    particular asset, such as the money on deposit in a particular bank
    account that is alleged to be the proceeds of a criminal offense,
    or a parcel of land that is traceable to that offense, the court
    must find that the government has established the requisite nexus
    between the property and the offense. To the extent that the
    government is seeking a money judgment, such as a judgment for the
    amount of money derived from a drug trafficking offense or the
    amount involved in a money laundering offense where the actual
    property subject to forfeiture has not been found or is
    unavailable, the court must determine the amount of money that the
    defendant should be ordered to forfeit.
      The court may make the determination based on evidence in the
    record, or on additional evidence submitted by the defendant or
    evidence submitted by the government in support of the motion for
    the entry of a judgment of forfeiture. The defendant would have no
    standing to object to the forfeiture on the ground that the
    property belonged to someone else.
      Under subdivision (b)(2), if the court finds that property is
    forfeitable, it must enter a preliminary order of forfeiture. It
    also recognizes that any determination of a third person's interest
    in the property is deferred until an ancillary proceeding, if any,
    is held under subdivision (c).
      Subdivision (b)(3) replaces Rule 32(d)(2) (effective December
    1996). It provides that once the court enters a preliminary order
    of forfeiture directing the forfeiture of whatever interest each
    defendant may have in the forfeited property, the government may
    seize the property and commence an ancillary proceeding to
    determine the interests of any third party. The subdivision also
    provides that the Attorney General may designate someone outside of
    the Department of Justice to seize forfeited property. This is
    necessary because in cases in which the lead investigative agency
    is in the Treasury Department, for example, the seizure of the
    forfeited property is typically handled by agencies other than the
    Department of Justice.
      If no third party files a claim, the court, at the time of
    sentencing, will enter a final order forfeiting the property in
    accordance with subdivision (c)(2), discussed infra. If a third
    party files a claim, the order of forfeiture will become final as
    to the defendant at the time of sentencing but will be subject to
    amendment in favor of a third party pending the conclusion of the
    ancillary proceeding.
      Because the order of forfeiture becomes final as to the defendant
    at the time of sentencing, his right to appeal from that order
    begins to run at that time. As courts have held, because the
    ancillary hearing has no bearing on the defendant's right to the
    property, the defendant has no right to appeal when a final order
    is, or is not, amended to recognize third party rights. See, e.g.,
    United States v. Christunas, 126 F.3d 765 (6th Cir. 1997)
    (preliminary order of forfeiture is final as to the defendant and
    is immediately appealable).
      Because it is not uncommon for sentencing to be postponed for an
    extended period to allow a defendant to cooperate with the
    government in an ongoing investigation, the rule would allow the
    order of forfeiture to become final as to the defendant before
    sentencing, if the defendant agrees to that procedure. Otherwise,
    the government would be unable to dispose of the property until the
    sentencing took place.
      Subdivision (b)(4) addresses the right of either party to request
    that a jury make the determination of whether any property is
    subject to forfeiture. The provision gives the defendant, in all
    cases where a jury has returned a guilty verdict, the option of
    asking that the jury be retained to hear additional evidence
    regarding the forfeitability of the property. The only issue for
    the jury in such cases would be whether the government has
    established the requisite nexus between the property and the
    offense. For example, if the defendant disputes the government's
    allegation that a parcel of real property is traceable to the
    offense, the defendant would have the right to request that the
    jury hear evidence on that issue, and return a special verdict, in
    a bifurcated proceeding that would occur after the jury returns the
    guilty verdict. The government would have the same option of
    requesting a special jury verdict on this issue, as is the case
    under current law. See Rule 23(a) (trial by jury may be waived only
    with the consent of the government).
      When Rule 31(e) was promulgated, it was assumed that criminal
    forfeiture was akin to a separate criminal offense on which
    evidence would be presented and the jury would have to return a
    verdict. In Libretti v. United States, 516 U.S. 29 (1995), however,
    the Supreme Court held that criminal forfeiture constitutes an
    aspect of the sentence imposed in a criminal case and that the
    defendant has no constitutional right to have the jury determine
    any part of the forfeiture. The special verdict requirement in Rule
    31(e), the Court said, is in the nature of a statutory right that
    can be modified or repealed at any time.
      Even before Libretti, lower courts had determined that criminal
    forfeiture is a sentencing matter and concluded that criminal
    trials therefore should be bifurcated so that the jury first
    returns a verdict on guilt or innocence and then returns to hear
    evidence regarding the forfeiture. In the second part of the
    bifurcated proceeding, the jury is instructed that the government
    must establish the forfeitability of the property by a
    preponderance of the evidence. See United States v. Myers, 21 F.3d
    826 (8th Cir. 1994) (preponderance standard applies because
    criminal forfeiture is part of the sentence in money laundering
    cases); United States v. Voigt, 89 F.3d 1050 (3rd Cir. 1996)
    (following Myers); United States v. Smith, 966 F.2d 1045, 1050-53
    (6th Cir. 1992) (same for drug cases); United States v. Bieri, 21
    F.3d 819 (8th Cir. 1994) (same).
      Although an argument could be made under Libretti, that a jury
    trial is no longer appropriate on any aspect of the forfeiture
    issue, which is a part of sentencing, the Committee decided to
    retain the right for the parties, in a trial held before a jury, to
    have the jury determine whether the government has established the
    requisite statutory nexus between the offense and the property to
    be forfeited. The jury, however, would not have any role in
    determining whether a defendant had an interest in the property to
    be forfeited. This is a matter for the ancillary proceeding which,
    by statute, is conducted "before the court alone, without a jury."
    See 21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(n)(2).
      Subdivision (c). Subdivision (c) sets forth a set of rules
    governing the conduct of the ancillary proceeding. When the
    ancillary hearing provisions were added to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1963 and
    21 U.S.C. Sec. 853 in 1984, Congress apparently assumed that the
    proceedings under the new provisions would involve simple questions
    of ownership that could, in the ordinary case, be resolved in 30
    days. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1963(l)(4). Presumably for that reason,
    the statute contains no procedures governing motions practice or
    discovery such as would be available in an ordinary civil case.
    Subdivision (c)(1) makes clear that no ancillary proceeding is
    required to the extent that the order of forfeiture consists of a
    money judgment. A money judgment is an in personam judgment against
    the defendant and not an order directed at specific assets in which
    any third party could have any interest.
      Experience has shown that ancillary hearings can involve issues
    of enormous complexity that require years to resolve. See United
    States v. BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A., 833 F. Supp. 9 (D.D.C.
    1993) (ancillary proceeding involving over 100 claimants and $451
    million); United States v. Porcelli, CR-85-00756 (CPS), 1992 U.S.
    Dist. LEXIS 17928 (E.D.N.Y. Nov. 5, 1992) (litigation over third
    party claim continuing 6 years after RICO conviction). In such
    cases, procedures akin to those available under the Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure should be available to the court and the parties
    to aid in the efficient resolution of the claims.
      Because an ancillary hearing is connected to a criminal case, it
    would not be appropriate to make the Civil Rules applicable in all
    respects. The amendment, however, describes several fundamental
    areas in which procedures analogous to those in the Civil Rules may
    be followed. These include the filing of a motion to dismiss a
    claim, conducting discovery, disposing of a claim on a motion for
    summary judgment, and appealing a final disposition of a claim.
    Where applicable, the amendment follows the prevailing case law on
    the issue. See, e.g., United States v. Lavin, 942 F.2d 177 (3rd
    Cir. 1991) (ancillary proceeding treated as civil case for purposes
    of applying Rules of Appellate Procedure); United States v. BCCI
    Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. (In re Petitions of General Creditors),
    919 F. Supp. 31 (D.D.C. 1996) ("If a third party fails to allege in
    its petition all elements necessary for recovery, including those
    relating to standing, the court may dismiss the petition without
    providing a hearing"); United States v. BCCI (Holdings) Luxembourg
    S.A. (In re Petition of Department of Private Affairs), 1993 WL
    760232 (D.D.C. Dec. 8, 1993) (applying court's inherent powers to
    permit third party to obtain discovery from defendant in accordance
    with civil rules). The provision governing appeals in cases where
    there are multiple claims is derived from Fed. R. Civ. P. 54(b).
    See also United States v. BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. (Petition
    of Banque Indosuez), 961 F. Supp. 282 (D.D.C. 1997) (in resolving
    motion to dismiss court assumes all facts pled by third party
    petitioner to be true, applying Rule 12(b)(6) and denying
    government's motion because whether claimant had superior title
    turned on factual dispute; government acted reasonably in not
    making any discovery requests in ancillary proceeding until court
    ruled on its motion to dismiss).
      Subdivision (c)(2) provides for the entry of a final order of
    forfeiture at the conclusion of the ancillary proceeding. Under
    this provision, if no one files a claim in the ancillary
    proceeding, the preliminary order would become the final order of
    forfeiture, but the court would first have to make an independent
    finding that at least one of the defendants had an interest in the
    property such that it was proper to order the forfeiture of the
    property in a criminal case. In making that determination, the
    court may rely upon reasonable inferences. For example, the fact
    that the defendant used the property in committing the crime and no
    third party claimed an interest in the property may give rise to
    the inference that the defendant had a forfeitable interest in the
    property.
      This subdivision combines and preserves two established tenets of
    current law. One is that criminal forfeitures are in personam
    actions that are limited to the property interests of the
    defendant. (This distinguishes criminal forfeiture, which is
    imposed as part of the defendant's sentence, from civil forfeiture
    which may be pursued as an action against the property in rem
    without regard to who the owner may be.) The other tenet of current
    law is that if a third party has notice of the forfeiture but fails
    to file a timely claim, his or her interests are extinguished, and
    may not be recognized when the court enters the final order of
    forfeiture. See United States v. Hentz, 1996 WL 355327 (E.D. Pa.
    June 20, 1996) (once third party fails to file a claim in the
    ancillary proceeding, government has clear title under 21 U.S.C.
    Sec. 853(n)(7) and can market the property notwithstanding third
    party's name on the deed). In the rare event that a third party
    claims that he or she was not afforded adequate notice of a
    criminal forfeiture action, the person may file a motion under Rule
    60(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure to reopen the
    ancillary proceeding. See United States v. Bouler, 927 F. Supp. 911
    (W.D.N.C. 1996) (Rule 60(b) is the proper means by which a third
    party may move to reopen an ancillary proceeding).
      If no third parties assert their interests in the ancillary
    proceeding, the court must nonetheless determine that the
    defendant, or combination of defendants, had an interest in the
    property. Criminal defendants may be jointly and severally liable
    for the forfeiture of the entire proceeds of the criminal offense.
    See United States v. Hurley, 63 F.3d 1 (1st Cir. 1995) (government
    can collect the proceeds only once, but subject to that cap, it can
    collect from any defendant so much of the proceeds as was
    foreseeable to that defendant); United States v. Cleveland, 1997 WL
    602186 (E.D. La. Sept. 29, 1997) (same); United States v.
    McCarroll, 1996 WL 355371 at *9 (N.D. Ill. June 25, 1996)
    (following Hurley), aff'd sub nom. United States v. Jarrett, 133
    F.3d 519 (7th Cir. 1998); United States v. DeFries, 909 F. Supp.
    13, 19-20 (D.D.C. 1995) (defendants are jointly and severally
    liable even where government is able to determine precisely how
    much each defendant benefitted from the scheme), rev'd on other
    grounds, 129 F.3d 1293 (D.C. Cir. 1997). Therefore, the conviction
    of any of the defendants is sufficient to support the forfeiture of
    the entire proceeds of the offense, even if the defendants have
    divided the money among themselves.
      As noted in (c)(4), the ancillary proceeding is not considered a
    part of sentencing. Thus, the Federal Rules of Evidence would apply
    to the ancillary proceeding, as is the case currently.
      Subdivision (d). Subdivision (d) replaces the forfeiture
    provisions of Rule 38(e) which provide that the court may stay an
    order of forfeiture pending appeal. The purpose of the provision is
    to ensure that the property remains intact and unencumbered so that
    it may be returned to the defendant in the event the appeal is
    successful. Subdivision (d) makes clear, however, that a district
    court is not divested of jurisdiction over an ancillary proceeding
    even if the defendant appeals his or her conviction. This allows
    the court to proceed with the resolution of third party claims even
    as the appellate court considers the appeal. Otherwise, third
    parties would have to await the conclusion of the appellate process
    even to begin to have their claims heard. See United States v.
    Messino, 907 F. Supp. 1231 (N.D. Ill. 1995) (the district court
    retains jurisdiction over forfeiture matters while an appeal is
    pending).
      Finally, subdivision (d) provides a rule to govern what happens
    if the court determines that a third-party claim should be granted
    but the defendant's appeal is still pending. The defendant is
    barred from filing a claim in the ancillary proceeding. See 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 1963(l)(2); 21 U.S.C. Sec. 853(n)(2). Thus, the court's
    determination, in the ancillary proceeding, that a third party has
    an interest in the property superior to that of the defendant
    cannot be binding on the defendant. So, in the event that the court
    finds in favor of the third party, that determination is final only
    with respect to the government's alleged interest. If the defendant
    prevails on appeal, he or she recovers the property as if no
    conviction or forfeiture ever took place. But if the order of
    forfeiture is affirmed, the amendment to the order of forfeiture in
    favor of the third party becomes effective.
      Subdivision (e). Subdivision (e) makes clear, as courts have
    found, that the court retains jurisdiction to amend the order of
    forfeiture at any time to include subsequently located property
    which was originally included in the forfeiture order and any
    substitute property. See United States v. Hurley, 63 F.3d 1 (1st
    Cir. 1995) (court retains authority to order forfeiture of
    substitute assets after appeal is filed); United States v. Voigt,
    89 F.3d 1050 (3rd Cir. 1996) (following Hurley). Third parties, of
    course, may contest the forfeiture of substitute assets in the
    ancillary proceeding. See United States v. Lester, 85 F.3d 1409
    (9th Cir. 1996).
      Subdivision (e)(1) makes clear that the right to a bifurcated
    jury trial to determine whether the government has established the
    requisite nexus between the property and the offense, see (b)(4),
    does not apply to the forfeiture of substitute assets or to the
    addition of newly-discovered property to an existing order of
    forfeiture. It is well established in the case law that the
    forfeiture of substitute assets is solely an issue for the court.
    See United States v. Hurley, 63 F.3d 1 (1st Cir. 1995) (court
    retains authority to order forfeiture of substitute assets after
    appeal is filed); United States v. Voigt, 89 F.3d 1050 (3d Cir.
    1996) (following Hurley; court may amend order of forfeiture at any
    time to include substitute assets); United States v. Thompson, 837
    F. Supp. 585 (S.D.N.Y. 1993) (court, not jury, orders forfeiture of
    substitute assets). As a practical matter, courts have also
    determined that they, not the jury, must determine the
    forfeitability of assets discovered after the trial is over and the
    jury has been dismissed. See United States v. Saccoccia, 898 F.
    Supp. 53 (D.R.I. 1995) (government may conduct post-trial discovery
    to determine location and identity of forfeitable assets; post-
    trial discovery resulted in discovery of gold bars buried in
    defendant's mother's backyard several years after the entry of an
    order directing the defendant to forfeit all property, up to $137
    million, involved in his money laundering offense).
      GAP Report - Rule 32.2. The Committee amended the rule to clarify
    several key points. First, subdivision (b) was redrafted to make it
    clear that if no third party files a petition to assert property
    rights, the trial court must determine whether the defendant has an
    interest in the property to be forfeited and the extent of that
    interest. As published, the rule would have permitted the trial
    judge to order the defendant to forfeit the property in its
    entirety if no third party filed a claim.
      Second, Rule 32.2(c)(4) was added to make it clear that the
    ancillary proceeding is not a part of sentencing.
      Third, the Committee clarified the procedures to be used if the
    government (1) discovers property subject to forfeiture after the
    court has entered an order of forfeiture and (2) seeks the
    forfeiture of "substitute" property under a statute authorizing
    such substitution.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 32.2 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a). The amendment responds to some uncertainty
    regarding the form of the required notice that the government will
    seek forfeiture as part of the sentence, making it clear that the
    notice should not be designated as a separate count in an
    indictment or information. The amendment also makes it clear that
    the indictment or information need only provide general notice that
    the government is seeking forfeiture, without identifying the
    specific property being sought. This is consistent with the 2000
    Committee Note, as well as many lower court decisions.
      Although forfeitures are not charged as counts, the federal
    judiciary's Case Management and Electronic Case Files system should
    note that forfeiture has been alleged so as to assist the parties
    and the court in tracking the subsequent status of forfeiture
    allegations.
      The court may direct the government to file a bill of particulars
    to inform the defendant of the identity of the property that the
    government is seeking to forfeit or the amount of any money
    judgment sought if necessary to enable the defendant to prepare a
    defense or to avoid unfair surprise. See, e.g., United States v.
    Moffitt, Zwerdling, & Kemler, P.C., 83 F.3d 660, 665 (4th Cir.
    1996) (holding that the government need not list each asset subject
    to forfeiture in the indictment because notice can be provided in a
    bill of particulars); United States v. Vasquez-Ruiz, 136 F. Supp.
    2d 941, 944 (N.D. Ill. 2001) (directing the government to identify
    in a bill of particulars, at least 30 days before trial, the
    specific items of property, including substitute assets, that it
    claims are subject to forfeiture); United States v. Best, 657 F.
    Supp. 1179, 1182 (N.D. Ill. 1987) (directing the government to
    provide a bill of particulars apprising the defendants as to the
    time periods during which they obtained the specified classes of
    property through their alleged racketeering activity and the
    interest in each of these properties that was allegedly obtained
    unlawfully). See also United States v. Columbo, 2006 WL 2012511 * 5
    & n.13 (S.D. N.Y. 2006) (denying motion for bill of particulars and
    noting that government proposed sending letter detailing basis for
    forfeiture allegations).
      Subdivision (b)(1). Rule 32.2(b)(1) sets forth the procedure for
    determining if property is subject to forfeiture. Subparagraph (A)
    is carried forward from the current Rule without change.
      Subparagraph (B) clarifies that the parties may submit additional
    evidence relating to the forfeiture in the forfeiture phase of the
    trial, which may be necessary even if the forfeiture is not
    contested. Subparagraph (B) makes it clear that in determining what
    evidence or information should be accepted, the court should
    consider relevance and reliability. Finally, subparagraph (B)
    requires the court to hold a hearing when forfeiture is contested.
    The Committee foresees that in some instances live testimony will
    be needed to determine the reliability of proffered information.
    Cf. Rule 32.1(b)(1)(B)(iii) (providing the defendant in a
    proceeding for revocation of probation or supervised release with
    the opportunity, upon request, to question any adverse witness
    unless the judge determines this is not in the interest of
    justice).
      Subdivision (b)(2)(A). Current Rule 32.2(b) provides the
    procedure for issuing a preliminary forfeiture order once the court
    finds that the government has established the nexus between the
    property and the offense (or the amount of the money judgment). The
    amendment makes clear that the preliminary order may include
    substitute assets if the government has met the statutory criteria.
      Subdivision (b)(2)(B). This new subparagraph focuses on the
    timing of the preliminary forfeiture order, stating that the court
    should issue the order "sufficiently in advance of sentencing to
    allow the parties to suggest revisions or modifications before the
    order becomes final." Many courts have delayed entry of the
    preliminary order until the time of sentencing. This is undesirable
    because the parties have no opportunity to advise the court of
    omissions or errors in the order before it becomes final as to the
    defendant (which occurs upon oral announcement of the sentence and
    the entry of the criminal judgment). Once the sentence has been
    announced, the rules give the sentencing court only very limited
    authority to correct errors or omissions in the preliminary
    forfeiture order. Pursuant to Rule 35(a), the district court may
    correct a sentence, including an incorporated forfeiture order,
    within seven days after oral announcement of the sentence. During
    the seven-day period, corrections are limited to those necessary to
    correct "arithmetical, technical, or other clear error." See United
    States v. King, 368 F. Supp. 2d 509, 512-13 (D.S.C. 2005).
    Corrections of clerical errors may also be made pursuant to Rule
    36. If the order contains errors or omissions that do not fall
    within Rules 35(a) or 36, and the court delays entry of the
    preliminary forfeiture order until the time of sentencing, the
    parties may be left with no alternative to an appeal, which is a
    waste of judicial resources. The amendment requires the court to
    enter the preliminary order in advance of sentencing to permit time
    for corrections, unless it is not practical to do so in an
    individual case.
      Subdivision (b)(2)(C). The amendment explains how the court is to
    reconcile the requirement that it make the forfeiture order part of
    the sentence with the fact that in some cases the government will
    not have completed its post-conviction investigation to locate the
    forfeitable property by the time of sentencing. In that case the
    court is authorized to issue a forfeiture order describing the
    property in "general" terms, which order may be amended pursuant to
    Rule 32.2(e)(1) when additional specific property is identified.
      The authority to issue a general forfeiture order should be used
    only in unusual circumstances and not as a matter of course. For
    cases in which a general order was properly employed, see United
    States v. BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg), 69 F. Supp. 2d 36 (D.D.C.
    1999) (ordering forfeiture of all of a large, complex corporation's
    assets in the United States, permitting the government to continue
    discovery necessary to identify and trace those assets); United
    States v. Saccoccia, 898 F. Supp. 53 (D.R.I. 1995) (ordering
    forfeiture of up to a specified amount of laundered drug proceeds
    so that the government could continue investigation which led to
    the discovery and forfeiture of gold bars buried by the defendant
    in his mother's back yard).
      Subdivisions (b)(3) and (4). The amendment moves the language
    explaining when the forfeiture order becomes final as to the
    defendant to new subparagraph (b)(4)(A), where it is coupled with
    new language explaining that the order is not final as to third
    parties until the completion of the ancillary proceedings provided
    for in Rule 32.2(c).
      New subparagraphs (B) and (C) are intended to clarify what the
    district court is required to do at sentencing, and to respond to
    conflicting decisions in the courts regarding the application of
    Rule 36 to correct clerical errors. The new subparagraphs add
    considerable detail regarding the oral announcement of the
    forfeiture at sentencing, the reference to the forfeiture order in
    the judgment and commitment order, the availability of Rule 36 to
    correct the failure to include the forfeiture order in the judgment
    and commitment order, and the time to appeal.
      New subparagraph (C) clarifies the time for appeals concerning
    forfeiture by the defendant or government from two kinds of orders:
    the original judgment of conviction and later orders amending or
    refusing to amend the judgment under Rule 32.2(e) to add additional
    property. This provision does not address appeals by the government
    or a third party from orders in ancillary proceedings under Rule
    32.2(c).
      Subdivision (b)(5)(A). The amendment clarifies the procedure for
    requesting a jury determination of forfeiture. The goal is to avoid
    an inadvertent waiver of the right to a jury determination, while
    also providing timely notice to the court and to the jurors
    themselves if they will be asked to make the forfeiture
    determination. The amendment requires that the court determine
    whether either party requests a jury determination of forfeiture in
    cases where the government has given notice that it is seeking
    forfeiture and a jury has been empaneled to determine guilt or
    innocence. The rule requires the court to make this determination
    before the jury retires. Jurors who know that they may face an
    additional task after they return their verdict will be more
    accepting of the additional responsibility in the forfeiture
    proceeding, and the court will be better able to plan as well.
      Although the rule permits a party to make this request just
    before the jury retires, it is desirable, when possible, to make
    the request earlier, at the time when the jury is empaneled. This
    allows the court to plan, and also allows the court to tell
    potential jurors what to expect in terms of their service.
      Subdivision (b)(5)(B) explains that "the government must submit a
    proposed Special Verdict Form listing each property subject to
    forfeiture." Use of such a form is desirable, and the government is
    in the best position to draft the form.
      Subdivisions (b)(6) and (7). These provisions are based upon the
    civil forfeiture provisions in Supplemental Rule G of the Federal
    Rules of Civil Procedure, which are also incorporated by cross
    reference. The amendment governs such mechanical and technical
    issues as the manner of publishing notice of forfeiture to third
    parties and the interlocutory sale of property, bringing practice
    under the Criminal Rules into conformity with the Civil Rules.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The proposed amendment to Rule 32.2 was modified to use the term
    "property" throughout. As published, the proposed amendment used
    the terms property and asset(s) interchangeably. No difference in
    meaning was intended, and in order to avoid confusion, a single
    term was used consistently throughout. The term "forfeiture order"
    was substituted, where possible, for the wordier "order of
    forfeiture." Other small stylistic changes (such as the insertion
    of "the" in subpart titles) were also made to conform to the style
    conventions.
      In new subpart (b)(4)(C), dealing with the time for appeals, the
    words "the defendant or the government" were substituted for the
    phrase "a party." This portion of the rule addresses only appeals
    from the original judgment of conviction and later orders amending
    or refusing to amend the judgment under Rule 32.2(e) to add
    additional property. Only the defendant and the government are
    parties at this stage of the proceedings. This portion of the rule
    does not address appeals by the government or a third party from
    orders in ancillary proceedings under Rule 32.2(c). This point was
    also clarified in the Committee note.
      Additionally, two other changes were made to the Committee Note:
    a reference to the use of the ECF system to aid the court and
    parties in tracking the status of forfeiture allegations, and an
    additional illustrative case.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Supplemental Rules of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
    referred to in subd. (b)(6)(C), (D), (7), are set out in the
    Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.
      The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subd.
    (c)(1)(B), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 33                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 33. New Trial

-STATUTE-
      (a) Defendant's Motion. Upon the defendant's motion, the court
    may vacate any judgment and grant a new trial if the interest of
    justice so requires. If the case was tried without a jury, the
    court may take additional testimony and enter a new judgment.
      (b) Time to File.
        (1) Newly Discovered Evidence. Any motion for a new trial
      grounded on newly discovered evidence must be filed within 3
      years after the verdict or finding of guilty. If an appeal is
      pending, the court may not grant a motion for a new trial until
      the appellate court remands the case.
        (2) Other Grounds. Any motion for a new trial grounded on any
      reason other than newly discovered evidence must be filed within
      14 days after the verdict or finding of guilty.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 24, 1998, eff. Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; Mar. 26, 2009, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule enlarges the time limit for motions for new trial on
    the ground of newly discovered evidence, from 60 days to two years;
    and for motions for new trial on other grounds from three to five
    days. Otherwise, it substantially continues existing practice. See
    Rule II of the Criminal Appeals Rules of 1933, 292 U.S. 661. Cf.
    Rule 59(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments to the first two sentences make it clear that a
    judge has no power to order a new trial on his own motion, that he
    can act only in response to a motion timely made by a defendant.
    Problems of double jeopardy arise when the court acts on its own
    motion. See United States v. Smith, 331 U.S. 469 (1947). These
    amendments do not, of course, change the power which the court has
    in certain circumstances, prior to verdict or finding of guilty, to
    declare a mistrial and order a new trial on its own motion. See
    e.g., Gori v. United States, 367 U.S. 364 (1961); Downum v. United
    States, 372 U.S. 734 (1963); United States v. Tateo, 377 U.S. 463
    (1964). The amendment to the last sentence changes the time in
    which the motion may be made to 7 days. See the Advisory
    Committee's Note to Rule 29.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      As currently written, the time for filing a motion for new trial
    on the ground of newly discovered evidence runs from the "final
    judgment." The courts, in interpreting that language, have
    uniformly concluded that that language refers to the action of the
    Court of Appeals. See, e.g., United States v. Reyes, 49 F.3d 63, 66
    (2d Cir. 1995)(citing cases). It is less clear whether that action
    is the appellate court's judgment or the issuance of its mandate.
    In Reyes, the court concluded that it was the latter event. In
    either case, it is clear that the present approach of using the
    appellate court's final judgment as the triggering event can cause
    great disparity in the amount of time available to a defendant to
    file timely a motion for new trial. This would be especially true
    if, as noted by the Court in Reyes, supra at 67, an appellate court
    stayed its mandate pending review by the Supreme Court. See also
    Herrera v. Collins, 506 U.S. 390, 410-412 (1993) (noting divergent
    treatment by States of time for filing motions for new trial).
      It is the intent of the Committee to remove that element of
    inconsistency by using the trial court's verdict or finding of
    guilty as the triggering event. The change also furthers internal
    consistency within the rule itself; the time for filing a motion
    for new trial on any other ground currently runs from that same
    event.
      Finally, the time to file a motion for new trial based upon newly
    discovered evidence is increased to three years to compensate for
    what would have otherwise resulted in less time than that currently
    contemplated in the rule for filing such motions.
      Changes Made to Rule 33 After Publication ("GAP Report"). The
    Advisory Committee changed the proposed amendment to require that
    any motions for new trials based upon newly discovered evidence
    must be filed within three years, instead of two years, from the
    date of the verdict. The Committee also incorporated changes
    offered by the Style Subcommittee.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 33 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 33(b)(2) has been amended to remove the requirement that the
    court must act within seven days after a verdict or finding of
    guilty if it sets another time for filing a motion for a new trial.
    This amendment parallels similar changes to Rules 29 and 34.
    Further, a conforming amendment has been made to Rule 45(b)(2).
      Currently, Rule 33(b)(2) requires the defendant to move for a new
    trial within seven days after the verdict or the finding of guilty
    verdict, or within some other time set by the court in an order
    issued during that same seven-day period. Similar provisions exist
    in Rules 29 and 34. Courts have held that the seven-day rule is
    jurisdictional. Thus, if a defendant files a request for an
    extension of time to file a motion for a new trial within the seven-
    day period, the court must rule on that motion or request within
    the same seven-day period. If for some reason the court does not
    rule on the request within the seven days, it loses jurisdiction to
    act on the underlying substantive motion. See, e.g., United States
    v. Smith, 331 U.S. 469, 473-474 (1947) (rejecting argument that
    trial court had power to grant new trial on its own motion after
    expiration of time in Rule 33); United States v. Marquez, 291 F.3d
    23, 27-28 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (citing language of Rule 33, and holding
    that "district court forfeited the power to act when it failed to .
    . . fix a new time for a filing a motion for new trial [sic] within
    seven days of the verdict").
      Assuming that the current rule was intended to promote finality,
    there is nothing to prevent the court from granting the defendant a
    significant extension of time, so long as it does so within the
    seven-day period. Thus, the Committee believed that the rule should
    be amended to be consistent with all of the other timing
    requirements in the rules, which do not force the court to act on a
    motion to extend the time for filing within a particular period of
    time or lose jurisdiction to do so.
      Accordingly, the amendment deletes the language regarding the
    court's acting within seven days to set the time for filing. Read
    in conjunction with the conforming amendment to Rule 45(b), the
    defendant is still required to file a timely motion for a new trial
    under Rule 33(b)(2) within the seven-day period specified. The
    defendant may, under Rule 45, seek an extension of time to file the
    underlying motion as long as the defendant does so within the seven-
    day period. But the court itself is not required to act on that
    motion within any particular time. Further, under Rule 45(b)(1)(B),
    if for some reason the defendant fails to file the underlying
    motion for new trial within the specified time, the court may
    nonetheless consider that untimely underlying motion if the court
    determines that the failure to file it on time was the result of
    excusable neglect.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    substantive changes to Rule 33 following publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Former Rules 29, 33, and 34 adopted 7-day periods for their
    respective motions. This period has been expanded to 14 days.
    Experience has proved that in many cases it is not possible to
    prepare a satisfactory motion in 7 days, even under the former rule
    that excluded intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
    This led to frequent requests for continuances, and the filing of
    bare bones motions that required later supplementation. The 14-day
    period - including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
    holidays as provided by Rule 45(a) - sets a more realistic time for
    the filing of these motions.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 34                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 34. Arresting Judgment

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. Upon the defendant's motion or on its own, the
    court must arrest judgment if:
        (1) the indictment or information does not charge an offense;
      or
        (2) the court does not have jurisdiction of the charged
      offense.

      (b) Time to File. The defendant must move to arrest judgment
    within 14 days after the court accepts a verdict or finding of
    guilty, or after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; Mar. 26, 2009, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule continues existing law except that it enlarges the time
    for making motions in arrest of judgment from 3 days to 5 days. See
    Rule II (2) of Criminal Appeals Rules of 1933, 292 U.S.C. 661.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The words "on motion of a defendant" are added to make clear
    here, as in Rule 33, that the court may act only pursuant to a
    timely motion by the defendant.
      The amendment to the second sentence is designed to clarify an
    ambiguity in the rule as originally drafted. In Lott v. United
    States, 367 U.S. 421 (1961) the Supreme Court held that when a
    defendant pleaded nolo contendere the time in which a motion could
    be made under this rule did not begin to run until entry of the
    judgment. The Court held that such a plea was not a "determination
    of guilty." No reason of policy appears to justify having the time
    for making this motion commence with the verdict or finding of
    guilt but not with the acceptance of the plea of nolo contendere or
    the plea of guilty. The amendment changes the result in the Lott
    case and makes the periods uniform. The amendment also changes the
    time in which the motion may be made to 7 days. See the Advisory
    Committee's Note to Rule 29.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 34 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 34(b) has been amended to remove the requirement that the
    court must act within seven days after the court accepts a verdict
    or finding of guilty, or after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere
    if it sets another time for filing a motion to arrest a judgment.
    The amendment parallels similar amendments to Rules 29 and 33.
    Further, a conforming amendment has been made to Rule 45(b).
      Currently, Rule 34(b) requires the defendant to move to arrest
    judgment within seven days after the court accepts a verdict or
    finding of guilty, or after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or
    within some other time set by the court in an order issued by the
    court within that same seven-day period. Similar provisions exist
    in Rules 29 and 33. Courts have held that the seven-day rule is
    jurisdictional. Thus, if a defendant files a request for an
    extension of time to file a motion to arrest judgment within the
    seven-day period, the judge must rule on that motion or request
    within the same seven-day period. If for some reason the court does
    not rule on the request within the seven days, the court loses
    jurisdiction to act on the underlying substantive motion, if it is
    not filed within the seven days. See, e.g., United States v. Smith,
    331 U.S. 469, 473-474 (1947) (rejecting argument that trial court
    had power to grant new trial on its own motion after expiration of
    time in Rule 33); United States v. Marquez, 291 F.3d 23, 27-28
    (D.C. Cir. 2002) (citing language of Rule 33, and holding that
    "district court forfeited the power to act when it failed to . . .
    fix a new time for filing a motion for a new trial within seven
    days of the verdict").
      Assuming that the current rule was intended to promote finality,
    there is nothing to prevent the court from granting the defendant a
    significant extension of time, so long as it does so within the
    seven-day period. Thus, the Committee believed that the rule should
    be amended to be consistent with all of the other timing
    requirements in the rules, which do not force the court to rule on
    a motion to extend the time for filing within a particular period
    of time or lose jurisdiction to do so.
      Accordingly, the amendment deletes the language regarding the
    court's acting within seven days to set the time for filing. Read
    in conjunction with the conforming amendment to Rule 45(b), the
    defendant is still required to file a timely motion to arrest
    judgment under Rule 34 within the seven-day period specified. The
    defendant may, under Rule 45, seek an extension of time to file the
    underlying motion as long as the defendant does so within the seven-
    day period. But the court itself is not required to act on that
    motion within any particular time. Further, under Rule 45(b)(1)(B),
    if for some reason the defendant fails to file the underlying
    motion within the specified time, the court may nonetheless
    consider that untimely motion if the court determines that the
    failure to file it on time was the result of excusable neglect.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    substantive changes to Rule 34 following publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Former Rules 29, 33, and 34 adopted 7-day periods for their
    respective motions. This period has been expanded to 14 days.
    Experience has proved that in many cases it is not possible to
    prepare a satisfactory motion in 7 days, even under the former rule
    that excluded intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
    This led to frequent requests for continuances, and the filing of
    bare bones motions that required later supplementation. The 14-day
    period - including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
    holidays as provided by Rule 45(a) - sets a more realistic time for
    the filing of these motions.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 35                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 35. Correcting or Reducing a Sentence

-STATUTE-
      (a) Correcting Clear Error. Within 14 days after sentencing, the
    court may correct a sentence that resulted from arithmetical,
    technical, or other clear error.
      (b) Reducing a Sentence for Substantial Assistance.
        (1) In General. Upon the government's motion made within one
      year of sentencing, the court may reduce a sentence if the
      defendant, after sentencing, provided substantial assistance in
      investigating or prosecuting another person.
        (2) Later Motion. Upon the government's motion made more than
      one year after sentencing, the court may reduce a sentence if the
      defendant's substantial assistance involved:
          (A) information not known to the defendant until one year or
        more after sentencing;
          (B) information provided by the defendant to the government
        within one year of sentencing, but which did not become useful
        to the government until more than one year after sentencing; or
          (C) information the usefulness of which could not reasonably
        have been anticipated by the defendant until more than one year
        after sentencing and which was promptly provided to the
        government after its usefulness was reasonably apparent to the
        defendant.

        (3) Evaluating Substantial Assistance. In evaluating whether
      the defendant has provided substantial assistance, the court may
      consider the defendant's presentence assistance.
        (4) Below Statutory Minimum. When acting under Rule 35(b), the
      court may reduce the sentence to a level below the minimum
      sentence established by statute.

      (c) "Sentencing" Defined. As used in this rule, "sentencing"
    means the oral announcement of the sentence.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 30, 1979, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1979; Apr. 28, 1983, eff. Aug. 1, 1983; Pub. L. 98-473,
    title II, Sec. 215(b), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 2015; Apr. 29, 1985,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Pub. L. 99-570, title I, Sec. 1009(a), Oct. 27,
    1986, 100 Stat. 3207-8; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 24,
    1998, eff. Dec. 1, 1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 26,
    2004, eff. Dec. 1, 2004; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007; Mar. 26,
    2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The first sentence of the rule continues existing law. The second
    sentence introduces a flexible time limitation on the power of the
    court to reduce a sentence, in lieu of the present limitation of
    the term of court. Rule 45(c) abolishes the expiration of a term of
    court as a time limitation, thereby necessitating the introduction
    of a specific time limitation as to all proceedings now governed by
    the term of court as a limitation. The Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure (Rule 6(c)) [28 U.S.C., Appendix], abolishes the term of
    court as a time limitation in respect to civil actions. The two
    rules together thus do away with the significance of the expiration
    of a term of court which has largely become an anachronism.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to the first sentence gives the court power to
    correct a sentence imposed in an illegal manner within the same
    time limits as those provided for reducing a sentence. In Hill v.
    United States, 368 U.S. 424 (1962) the court held that a motion to
    correct an illegal sentence was not an appropriate way for a
    defendant to raise the question whether when he appeared for
    sentencing the court had afforded him an opportunity to make a
    statement in his own behalf as required by Rule 32(a). The
    amendment recognizes the distinction between an illegal sentence,
    which may be corrected at any time, and a sentence imposed in an
    illegal manner, and provides a limited time for correcting the
    latter.
      The second sentence has been amended to increase the time within
    which the court may act from 60 days to 120 days. The 60-day period
    is frequently too short to enable the defendant to obtain and file
    the evidence, information and argument to support a reduction in
    sentence. Especially where a defendant has been committed to an
    institution at a distance from the sentencing court, the delays
    involved in institutional mail inspection procedures and the time
    required to contact relatives, friends and counsel may result in
    the 60-day period passing before the court is able to consider the
    case.
      The other amendments to the second sentence clarify ambiguities
    in the timing provisions. In those cases in which the mandate of
    the court of appeals is issued prior to action by the Supreme Court
    on the defendant's petition for certiorari, the rule created
    problems in three situations: (1) If the writ were denied, the last
    phrase of the rule left obscure the point at which the period began
    to run because orders of the Supreme Court denying applications for
    writs are not sent to the district courts. See Johnson v. United
    States, 235 F.2d 459 (5th Cir. 1956). (2) If the writ were granted
    but later dismissed as improvidently granted, the rule did not
    provide any time period for reduction of sentence. (3) If the writ
    were granted and later the Court affirmed a judgment of the court
    of appeals which had affirmed the conviction, the rule did not
    provide any time period for reduction of sentence. The amendment
    makes it clear that in each of these three situations the 120-
    period commences to run with the entry of the order or judgment of
    the Supreme Court.
      The third sentence has been added to make it clear that the time
    limitation imposed by Rule 35 upon the reduction of a sentence does
    not apply to such reduction upon the revocation of probation as
    authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3653.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 35 is amended in order to make it clear that a judge may, in
    his discretion, reduce a sentence of incarceration to probation. To
    the extent that this permits the judge to grant probation to a
    defendant who has already commenced service of a term of
    imprisonment, it represents a change in the law. See United States
    v. Murray, 275 U.S. 347 (1928) (Probation Act construed not to give
    power to district court to grant probation to convict after
    beginning of service of sentence, even in the same term of court);
    Affronti v. United States, 350 U.S. 79 (1955) (Probation Act
    construed to mean that after a sentence of consecutive terms on
    multiple counts of an indictment has been imposed and service of
    sentence for the first such term has commenced, the district court
    may not suspend sentence and grant probation as to the remaining
    term or terms). In construing the statute in Murray and Affronti,
    the Court concluded Congress could not have intended to make the
    probation provisions applicable during the entire period of
    incarceration (the only other conceivable interpretation of the
    statute), for this would result in undue duplication of the three
    methods of mitigating a sentence - probation, pardon and parole -
    and would impose upon district judges the added burden of
    responding to probation applications from prisoners throughout the
    service of their terms of imprisonment. Those concerns do not apply
    to the instant provisions, for the reduction may occur only within
    the time specified in subdivision (b). This change gives
    "meaningful effect" to the motion-to-reduce remedy by allowing the
    court "to consider all alternatives that were available at the time
    of imposition of the original sentence." United States v. Golphin,
    362 F.Supp. 698 (W.D.Pa. 1973).
      Should the reduction to a sentence of probation occur after the
    defendant has been incarcerated more than six months, this would
    put into issue the applicability of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3651, which
    provides that initially the court "may impose a sentence in excess
    of six months and provide that the defendant be confined in a jail-
    type institution for a period not exceeding six months and that
    the execution of the remainder of the sentence be suspended and the
    defendant placed on probation for such period and upon such terms
    and conditions as the court deems best."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (b). There is currently a split of authority
    on the question of whether a court may reduce a sentence within 120
    days after revocation of probation when the sentence was imposed
    earlier but execution of the sentence had in the interim been
    suspended in part or in its entirety. Compare United States v.
    Colvin, 644 F.2d 703 (8th Cir. 1981) (yes); United States v.
    Johnson, 634 F.2d 94 (3d Cir. 1980) (yes); with United States v.
    Rice, 671 F.2d 455 (11th Cir. 1982) (no); United States v. Kahane,
    527 F.2d 491 (2d Cir. 1975) (no). The Advisory Committee believes
    that the rule should be clarified in light of this split, and has
    concluded that as a policy matter the result reached in Johnson is
    preferable.
      The Supreme Court declared in Korematsu v. United States, 319
    U.S. 432, 435 (1943), that "the difference to the probationer
    between imposition of sentence followed by probation . . . and
    suspension of the imposition of sentence [followed by probation]"
    is not a meaningful one. When imposition of sentence is suspended
    entirely at the time a defendant is placed on probation, that
    defendant has 120 days after revocation of probation and imposition
    of sentence to petition for leniency. The amendment to subdivision
    (b) makes it clear that similar treatment is to be afforded
    probationers for whom execution, rather than imposition, of
    sentence was originally suspended.
      The change facilitates the underlying objective of rule 35, which
    is to "give every convicted defendant a second round before the
    sentencing judge, and [afford] the judge an opportunity to
    reconsider the sentence in the light of any further information
    about the defendant or the case which may have been presented to
    him in the interim." United States v. Ellenbogan, 390 F.2d 537, 543
    (2d Cir. 1968). It is only technically correct that a reduction may
    be sought when a suspended sentence is imposed. As noted in
    Johnson, supra, at 96:
      It frequently will be unrealistic for a defendant whose sentence
      has just been suspended to petition the court for the further
      relief of a reduction of that suspended sentence.
          Just as significant, we doubt that sentencing judges would be
        very receptive to Rule 35 motions proffered at the time the
        execution of a term of imprisonment is suspended in whole or in
        part and the defendant given a term of probation. Moreover, the
        sentencing judge cannot know of events that might occur later
        and that might bear on what would constitute an appropriate
        term of imprisonment should the defendant violate his
        probation. . . . In particular, it is only with the revocation
        hearing that the judge is in a position to consider whether a
        sentence originally suspended pending probation should be
        reduced. The revocation hearing is thus the first point at
        which an offender can be afforded a realistic opportunity to
        plead for a light sentence. If the offender is to be provided
        two chances with the sentencing judge, to be meaningful this
        second sentence must occur subsequent to the revocation
        hearing.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (b). This amendment to Rule 35(b) conforms
    its language to the nonliteral interpretation which most courts
    have already placed upon the rule, namely, that it suffices that
    the defendant's motion was made within the 120 days and that the
    court determines the motion within a reasonable time thereafter.
    United States v. DeMier, 671 F.2d 1200 (8th Cir. 1982); United
    States v. Smith, 650 F.2d 206 (9th Cir. 1981); United States v.
    Johnson, 634 F.2d 94 (3d Cir. 1980); United States v. Mendoza, 581
    F.2d 89 (5th Cir. 1978); United States V. Stollings, 516 F.2d 1287
    (4th Cir. 1975). Despite these decisions, a change in the language
    is deemed desirable to remove any doubt which might arise from
    dictum in some cases, e.g., United States v. Addonizio, 442 U.S.
    178, 189 (1979), that Rule 35 only "authorizes District Courts to
    reduce a sentence within 120 days" and that this time period "is
    jurisdictional, and may not be extended." See United States v.
    Kajevic, 711 F.2d 767 (7th Cir. 1983), following the Addonizio
    dictum.
      As for the "reasonable time" limitation, reasonableness in this
    context "must be evaluated in light of the policies supporting the
    time limitations and the reasons for the delay in each case."
    United States v. Smith, supra, at 209. The time runs "at least for
    so long as the judge reasonably needs time to consider and act upon
    the motion." United States v. Stollings, supra, at 1288.
      In some instances the court may decide to reduce a sentence even
    though no motion seeking such action is before the court. When that
    is the case, the amendment makes clear, the reduction must actually
    occur within the time specified.
      This amendment does not preclude the filing of a motion by a
    defendant for further reduction of sentence after the court has
    reduced a sentence on its own motion, if filed within the 120 days
    specified in this rule.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 35(b), as amended in 1987 as part of the Sentencing Reform
    Act of 1984, reflects a method by which the government may obtain
    valuable assistance from defendants in return for an agreement to
    file a motion to reduce the sentence, even if the reduction would
    reduce the sentence below the mandatory minimum sentence.
      The title of subsection (b) has been amended to reflect that
    there is a difference between correcting an illegal or improper
    sentence, as in subsection (a), and reducing an otherwise legal
    sentence for special reasons under subsection (b).
      Under the 1987 amendment, the trial court was required to rule on
    the government's motion to reduce a defendant's sentence within one
    year after imposition of the sentence. This caused problems,
    however, in situations where the defendant's assistance could not
    be fully assessed in time to make a timely motion which could be
    ruled upon before one year had elapsed. The amendment requires the
    government to make its motion to reduce the sentence before one
    year has elapsed but does not require the court to rule on the
    motion within the one year limit. This change should benefit both
    the government and the defendant and will permit completion of the
    defendant's anticipated cooperation with the government. Although
    no specific time limit is set on the court's ruling on the motion
    to reduce the sentence, the burden nonetheless rests on the
    government to request and justify a delay in the court's ruling.
      The amendment also recognizes that there may be those cases where
    the defendant's assistance or cooperation may not occur until after
    one year has elapsed. For example, the defendant may not have
    obtained information useful to the government until after the time
    limit had passed. In those instances the trial court in its
    discretion may consider what would otherwise be an untimely motion
    if the government establishes that the cooperation could not have
    been furnished within the one-year time limit. In deciding whether
    to consider an untimely motion, the court may, for example,
    consider whether the assistance was provided as early as possible.
      Subdivision (c) is intended to adopt, in part, a suggestion from
    the Federal Courts Study Committee 1990 that Rule 35 be amended to
    recognize explicitly the ability of the sentencing court to correct
    a sentence imposed as a result of an obvious arithmetical,
    technical or other clear error, if the error is discovered shortly
    after the sentence is imposed. At least two courts of appeals have
    held that the trial court has the inherent authority,
    notwithstanding the repeal of former Rule 35(a) by the Sentencing
    Reform Act of 1984, to correct a sentence within the time allowed
    for sentence appeal by any party under 18 U.S.C. 3742. See United
    States v. Cook, 890 F.2d 672 (4th Cir. 1989) (error in applying
    sentencing guidelines); United States v. Rico, 902 F.2d 1065 (2nd
    Cir. 1990) (failure to impose prison sentence required by terms of
    plea agreement). The amendment in effect codifies the result in
    those two cases but provides a more stringent time requirement. The
    Committee believed that the time for correcting such errors should
    be narrowed within the time for appealing the sentence to reduce
    the likelihood of jurisdictional questions in the event of an
    appeal and to provide the parties with an opportunity to address
    the court's correction of the sentence, or lack thereof, in any
    appeal of the sentence. A shorter period of time would also reduce
    the likelihood of abuse of the rule by limiting its application to
    acknowledged and obvious errors in sentencing.
      The authority to correct a sentence under this subdivision is
    intended to be very narrow and to extend only to those cases in
    which an obvious error or mistake has occurred in the sentence,
    that is, errors which would almost certainly result in a remand of
    the case to the trial court for further action under Rule 35(a).
    The subdivision is not intended to afford the court the opportunity
    to reconsider the application or interpretation of the sentencing
    guidelines or for the court simply to change its mind about the
    appropriateness of the sentence. Nor should it be used to reopen
    issues previously resolved at the sentencing hearing through the
    exercise of the court's discretion with regard to the application
    of the sentencing guidelines. Furthermore, the Committee did not
    intend that the rule relax any requirement that the parties state
    all objections to a sentence at or before the sentencing hearing.
    See, e.g., United States v. Jones, 899 F.2d 1097 (11th Cir. 1990).
      The subdivision does not provide for any formalized method of
    bringing the error to the attention of the court and recognizes
    that the court could sua sponte make the correction. Although the
    amendment does not expressly address the issue of advance notice to
    the parties or whether the defendant should be present in court for
    resentencing, the Committee contemplates that the court will act in
    accordance with Rules 32 and 43 with regard to any corrections in
    the sentence. Compare United States v. Cook, supra (court erred in
    correcting sentence sua sponte in absence of defendant) with United
    States v. Rico, supra (court heard arguments on request by
    government to correct sentence). The Committee contemplates that
    the court would enter an order correcting the sentence and that
    such order must be entered within the seven (7) day period so that
    the appellate process (if a timely appeal is taken) may proceed
    without delay and without jurisdictional confusion.
      Rule 35(c) provides an efficient and prompt method for correcting
    obvious technical errors that are called to the court's attention
    immediately after sentencing. But the addition of this subdivision
    is not intended to preclude a defendant from obtaining statutory
    relief from a plainly illegal sentence. The Committee's assumption
    is that a defendant detained pursuant to such a sentence could seek
    relief under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255 if the seven day period provided
    in Rule 35(c) has elapsed. Rule 35(c) and Sec. 2255 should thus
    provide sufficient authority for a district court to correct
    obvious sentencing errors.
      The Committee considered, but rejected, a proposal from the
    Federal Courts Study Committee to permit modification of a
    sentence, within 120 days of sentencing, based upon new factual
    information not known to the defendant at the time of sentencing.
    Unlike the proposed subdivision (c) which addresses obvious
    technical mistakes, the ability of the defendant (and perhaps the
    government) to come forward with new evidence would be a
    significant step toward returning Rule 35 to its former state. The
    Committee believed that such a change would inject into Rule 35 a
    degree of postsentencing discretion which would raise doubts about
    the finality of determinate sentencing that Congress attempted to
    resolve by eliminating former Rule 35(a). It would also tend to
    confuse the jurisdiction of the courts of appeals in those cases in
    which a timely appeal is taken with respect to the sentence.
    Finally, the Committee was not persuaded by the available evidence
    that a problem of sufficient magnitude existed at this time which
    would warrant such an amendment.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      The amendment to Rule 35(b) is intended to fill a gap in current
    practice. Under the Sentencing Reform Act and the applicable
    guidelines, a defendant who has provided "substantial" assistance
    to the Government before sentencing may receive a reduced sentence
    under United States Sentencing Guideline Sec. 5K1.1. In addition, a
    defendant who provides substantial assistance after the sentence
    has been imposed may receive a reduction of the sentence if the
    Government files a motion under Rule 35(b). In theory, a defendant
    who has provided substantial assistance both before and after
    sentencing could benefit from both Sec. 5K1.1 and Rule 35(b). But a
    defendant who has provided, on the whole, substantial assistance
    may not be able to benefit from either provision because each
    provision requires "substantial assistance." As one court has
    noted, those two provisions contain distinct "temporal boundaries."
    United States v. Drown, 942 F.2d 55, 59 (1st Cir. 1991).
      Although several decisions suggest that a court may aggregate the
    defendant's pre-sentencing and post-sentencing assistance in
    determining whether the "substantial assistance" requirement of
    Rule 35(b) has been met, United States v. Speed, 53 F.3d 643, 647-
    649 (4th Cir. 1995) (Ellis, J. concurring), there is no formal
    mechanism for doing so. The amendment to Rule 35(b) is designed to
    fill that need. Thus, the amendment permits the court to consider,
    in determining the substantiality of post-sentencing assistance,
    the defendant's pre-sentencing assistance, irrespective of whether
    that assistance, standing alone, was substantial.
      The amendment, however, is not intended to provide a double
    benefit to the defendant. Thus, if the defendant has already
    received a reduction of sentence under U.S.S.G. Sec. 5K1.1 for
    substantial pre-sentencing assistance, he or she may not have that
    assistance counted again in a post-sentence Rule 35(b) motion.
      Changes Made After Publication ("GAP Report"). The Committee
    incorporated the Style Subcommittee's suggested changes.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 35 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The Committee deleted current Rule 35(a) (Correction on Remand).
    Congress added that rule, which currently addresses the issue of
    the district court's actions following a remand on the issue of
    sentencing, in the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984. Pub. L. No. 98-
    473. The rule cross-references 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3742, also enacted
    in 1984, which provides detailed guidance on the various options
    available to the appellate courts in addressing sentencing errors.
    In reviewing both provisions, the Committee concluded that Rule
    35(a) was no longer needed. First, the statute clearly covers the
    subject matter and second, it is not necessary to address an issue
    that would be very clear to a district court following a decision
    by a court of appeals.
      Former Rule 35(c), which addressed the authority of the court to
    correct certain errors in the sentence, is now located in Rule
    35(a). In the current version of Rule 35(c), the sentencing court
    is authorized to correct errors in the sentence if the correction
    is made within seven days of the imposition of the sentence. The
    revised rule uses the term "sentencing." No change in practice is
    intended by using that term.
      A substantive change has been made in revised Rule 35(b). Under
    current Rule 35(b), if the government believes that a sentenced
    defendant has provided substantial assistance in investigating or
    prosecuting another person, it may move the court to reduce the
    original sentence; ordinarily, the motion must be filed within one
    year of sentencing. In 1991, the rule was amended to permit the
    government to file such motions after more than one year had
    elapsed if the government could show that the defendant's
    substantial assistance involved "information or evidence not known
    by the defendant" until more than one year had elapsed. The current
    rule, however, did not address the question whether a motion to
    reduce a sentence could be filed and granted in those instances
    when the defendant's substantial assistance involved information
    provided by the defendant within one year of sentence but that did
    not become useful to the government until more than one year after
    sentencing (e.g., when the government starts an investigation to
    which the information is pertinent). The courts were split on the
    issue. Compare United States v. Morales, 52 F.3d 7 (1st Cir. 1995)
    (permitting filing and granting of motion) with United States v.
    Orozco, 160 F.3d 1309 (11th Cir. 1998) (denying relief and citing
    cases). Although the court in Orozco felt constrained to deny
    relief under Rule 35(b), the court urged an amendment of the rule
    to:
      address the apparent unforeseen situation presented in this case
      where a convicted defendant provides information to the
      government prior to the expiration of the jurisdictional, one-
      year period from sentence imposition, but that information does
      not become useful to the government until more than one year
      after sentence imposition. Id. at 1316, n. 13.
      Nor does the existing rule appear to allow a substantial
    assistance motion under equally deserving circumstances where a
    defendant, who fails to provide information within one year of
    sentencing because its usefulness could not reasonably have been
    anticipated, later provides the information to the government
    promptly upon its usefulness becoming apparent.
      Revised Rule 35(b) is intended to address both of those
    situations. First, Rule 35(b)(2)(B) makes clear that a sentence
    reduction motion is permitted in those instances identified by the
    court in Orozco. Second, Rule 35(b)(2)(C) recognizes that a post-
    sentence motion is also appropriate in those instances where the
    defendant did not provide any information within one year of
    sentencing, because its usefulness was not reasonably apparent to
    the defendant during that period. But the rule requires that once
    the defendant realizes the importance of the information the
    defendant promptly provide the information to the government. What
    constitutes "prompt" notification will depend on the circumstances
    of the case.
      The rule's one-year restriction generally serves the important
    interests of finality and of creating an incentive for defendants
    to provide promptly what useful information they might have. Thus,
    the proposed amendment would not eliminate the one-year requirement
    as a generally operative element. But where the usefulness of the
    information is not reasonably apparent until a year or more after
    sentencing, no sound purpose is served by the current rule's
    removal of any incentive to provide that information to the
    government one year or more after the sentence (or if previously
    provided, for the government to seek to reward the defendant) when
    its relevance and substantiality become evident.
      By using the term "involves" in Rule 35(b)(2) in describing the
    sort of information that may result in substantial assistance, the
    Committee recognizes that a court does not lose jurisdiction to
    consider a Rule 35(b)(2) motion simply because other information,
    not covered by any of the three provisions in Rule 35(b)(2), is
    presented in the motion.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2004 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 35(c) is a new provision, which defines sentencing for
    purposes of Rule 35 as the oral announcement of the sentence.
      Originally, the language in Rule 35 had used the term "imposition
    of sentence." The term "imposition of sentence" was not defined in
    the rule and the courts addressing the meaning of the term were
    split. The majority view was that the term meant the oral
    announcement of the sentence and the minority view was that it
    meant the entry of the judgment. See United States v. Aguirre, 214
    F.3d 1122, 1124-25 (9th Cir. 2000) (discussion of original Rule
    35(c) and citing cases). During the restyling of all of the
    Criminal Rules in 2000 and 2001, the Committee determined that the
    uniform term "sentencing" throughout the entire rule was the more
    appropriate term. After further reflection, and with the
    recognition that some ambiguity may still be present in using the
    term "sentencing," the Committee believes that the better approach
    is to make clear in the rule itself that the term "sentencing" in
    Rule 35 means the oral announcement of the sentence. That is the
    meaning recognized in the majority of the cases addressing the
    issue.
      Changes Made to Rule 35 After Publication and Comment. The
    Committee changed the definition of the triggering event for the
    timing requirements in Rule 35 to conform to the majority view in
    the circuit courts and adopted a special definitional section, Rule
    35(c), to define sentencing as the "oral announcement of the
    sentence."

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2007 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b)(1). The amendment conforms Rule 35(b)(1) to the
    Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220
    (2005). In Booker the Court held that the provision of the federal
    sentencing statute that makes the Guidelines mandatory, 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3553(b)(1), violates the Sixth Amendment right to jury trial.
    With this provision severed and excised, the Court held, the
    Sentencing Reform Act "makes the Guidelines effectively advisory,"
    and "requires a sentencing court to consider Guidelines ranges, see
    18 U.S.C.A. Sec. 3553(a)(4) (Supp. 2004), but it permits the court
    to tailor the sentence in light of other statutory concerns as
    well, see Sec. 3553(a) (Supp. 2004)." Id. at 245-46. Subdivision
    (b)(1)(B) has been deleted because it treats the guidelines as
    mandatory.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made to the text of the proposed amendment as
    released for public comment, but one change was made in the
    Committee Note. Here - as in the other Booker rules - the Committee
    deleted the reference to the Fifth Amendment from the description
    of the Supreme Court's decision in Booker.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Former Rule 35 permitted the correction of arithmetic, technical,
    or clear errors within 7 days of sentencing. In light of the
    increased complexity of the sentencing process, the Committee
    concluded it would be beneficial to expand this period to 14 days,
    including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays as
    provided by Rule 45(a). Extension of the period in this fashion
    will cause no jurisdictional problems if an appeal has been filed,
    because Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 4(b)(5) expressly
    provides that the filing of a notice of appeal does not divest the
    district court of jurisdiction to correct a sentence under Rule
    35(a).

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1986 - Subd. (b). Pub. L. 99-570 substituted "in accordance with
    the guidelines and policy statements issued by the Sentencing
    Commission pursuant to section 994 of title 28, United States Code.
    The court's authority to lower a sentence under this subdivision
    includes the authority to lower such sentence to a level below that
    established by statute as a minimum sentence" for "to the extent
    that such assistance is a factor in applicable guidelines or policy
    statements issued by the Sentencing Commission pursuant to 28
    U.S.C. 994(a)".
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-473 amended Rule 35 generally. Prior to
    amendment, rule read as follows:

      "Rule 35. Correction or Reduction of Sentence
      "(a) Correction of Sentence. The court may correct an illegal
    sentence at any time and may correct a sentence imposed in an
    illegal manner within the time provided herein for the reduction of
    sentence.
      "(b) Reduction of Sentence. A motion to reduce a sentence may be
    made, or the court may reduce a sentence without motion, within 120
    days after the sentence is imposed or probation is revoked, or
    within 120 days after receipt by the court of a mandate issued upon
    affirmance of the judgment or dismissal of the appeal, or within
    120 days after entry of any order or judgment of the Supreme Court
    denying review of, or having the effect of upholding, a judgment of
    conviction or probation revocation. The court shall determine the
    motion within a reasonable time. Changing a sentence from a
    sentence of incarceration to a grant of probation shall constitute
    a permissible reduction of sentence under this subdivision."

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1986 AMENDMENT                 
      Section 1009(b) of Pub. L. 99-570 provided that: "The amendment
    made by this section [amending this rule] shall take effect on the
    date of the taking effect of rule 35(b) of the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure, as amended by section 215(b) of the
    Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 [section 215(b) of Pub. L.
    98-473, effective Nov. 1, 1987]."

            EFFECTIVE AND TERMINATION DATES OF 1985 AMENDMENTS        
      Section 2 of the Order of the Supreme Court dated Apr. 29, 1985,
    provided: "That the foregoing amendments to the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure [amending Rules 6, 11, 12.1, 12.2, 35, 45, 49,
    and 57] shall take effect on August 1, 1985 and shall govern all
    proceedings in criminal cases thereafter commenced and, insofar as
    just and practicable, all proceedings in criminal cases then
    pending. The amendment to Rule 35(b) shall be effective until
    November 1, 1986, when Section 215(b) of the Comprehensive Crime
    Control Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-473, approved October 12, 1984, 98
    Stat. 2015, goes into effect." See section 22 of Pub. L. 100-182,
    set out below, for application of Rule 35(b) to conduct occurring
    before effective date of sentencing guidelines.
      Section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473, which originally provided
    for an effective date of Nov. 1, 1986 for the amendment to Rule 35
    by section 215(b) of Pub. L. 98-473, was later amended to provide
    for an effective date of Nov. 1, 1987, with applicability only to
    offenses committed after the taking effect of such amendment. See
    Effective Date note set out under section 3551 of this title.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-473 effective Nov. 1, 1987, and
    applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of
    such amendment, see section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473, set out as
    an Effective Date note under section 3551 of this title.

      APPLICATION OF RULE 35(B) TO CONDUCT OCCURRING BEFORE EFFECTIVE
                       DATE OF SENTENCING GUIDELINES
      Pub. L. 100-182, Sec. 22, Dec. 7, 1987, 101 Stat. 1271, provided
    that: "The amendment to rule 35(b) of the Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure made by the order of the Supreme Court on April 29, 1985,
    shall apply with respect to all offenses committed before the
    taking effect of section 215(b) of the Comprehensive Crime Control
    Act of 1984 [section 215(b) of Pub. L. 98-473, effective Nov. 1,
    1987]."

       AUTHORITY TO LOWER A SENTENCE BELOW STATUTORY MINIMUM FOR OLD
                                 OFFENSES
      Subd. (b) of this rule as amended by section 215(b) of Pub. L. 98-
    473 and subd. (b) of this rule as in effect before the taking
    effect of the initial set of guidelines promulgated by the United
    States Sentencing Commission pursuant to chapter 58 (Sec. 991 et
    seq.) of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, applicable in
    the case of an offense committed before the taking effect of such
    guidelines notwithstanding section 235 of Pub. L. 98-473, see
    section 24 of Pub. L. 100-182, set out as a note under section 3553
    of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 36                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 36. Clerical Error

-STATUTE-
      After giving any notice it considers appropriate, the court may
    at any time correct a clerical error in a judgment, order, or other
    part of the record, or correct an error in the record arising from
    oversight or omission.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule continues existing law. Rupinski v. United States, 4
    F.2d 17 (C.C.A. 6th). The rule is similar to Rule 60(a) of the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 36 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 37                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 37. [Reserved]
-STATUTE-


-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 38                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 38. Staying a Sentence or a Disability

-STATUTE-
      (a) Death Sentence. The court must stay a death sentence if the
    defendant appeals the conviction or sentence.
      (b) Imprisonment.
        (1) Stay Granted. If the defendant is released pending appeal,
      the court must stay a sentence of imprisonment.
        (2) Stay Denied; Place of Confinement. If the defendant is not
      released pending appeal, the court may recommend to the Attorney
      General that the defendant be confined near the place of the
      trial or appeal for a period reasonably necessary to permit the
      defendant to assist in preparing the appeal.

      (c) Fine. If the defendant appeals, the district court, or the
    court of appeals under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 8, may
    stay a sentence to pay a fine or a fine and costs. The court may
    stay the sentence on any terms considered appropriate and may
    require the defendant to:
        (1) deposit all or part of the fine and costs into the district
      court's registry pending appeal;
        (2) post a bond to pay the fine and costs; or
        (3) submit to an examination concerning the defendant's assets
      and, if appropriate, order the defendant to refrain from
      dissipating assets.

      (d) Probation. If the defendant appeals, the court may stay a
    sentence of probation. The court must set the terms of any stay.
      (e) Restitution and Notice to Victims.
        (1) In General. If the defendant appeals, the district court,
      or the court of appeals under Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure
      8, may stay - on any terms considered appropriate - any sentence
      providing for restitution under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3556 or notice
      under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3555.
        (2) Ensuring Compliance. The court may issue any order
      reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with a restitution
      order or a notice order after disposition of an appeal,
      including:
          (A) a restraining order;
          (B) an injunction;
          (C) an order requiring the defendant to deposit all or part
        of any monetary restitution into the district court's registry;
        or
          (D) an order requiring the defendant to post a bond.

      (f) Forfeiture. A stay of a forfeiture order is governed by Rule
    32.2(d).
      (g) Disability. If the defendant's conviction or sentence creates
    a civil or employment disability under federal law, the district
    court, or the court of appeals under Federal Rule of Appellate
    Procedure 8, may stay the disability pending appeal on any terms
    considered appropriate. The court may issue any order reasonably
    necessary to protect the interest represented by the disability
    pending appeal, including a restraining order or an injunction.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Jan. 1, 1949; Feb. 28, 1966, eff.
    July 1, 1966; Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Sec. 215(c), Oct. 12, 1984,
    98 Stat. 2016; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 17, 2000, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2000; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule substantially continues existing law except that it
    provides that in case an appeal is taken from a judgment imposing a
    sentence of imprisonment, a stay shall be granted only if the
    defendant so elects, or is admitted to bail. Under the present rule
    the sentence is automatically stayed unless the defendant elects to
    commence service of the sentence pending appeal. The new rule
    merely changes the burden of making the election. See Rule V of the
    Criminal Appeals Rules, 1933, 292 U.S. 661.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      A defendant sentenced to a term of imprisonment is committed to
    the custody of the Attorney General who is empowered by statute to
    designate the place of his confinement. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 4082. The
    sentencing court has no authority to designate the place of
    imprisonment. See, e.g., Hogue v. United States, 287 F.2d 99 (5th
    Cir. 1961), cert. den., 368 U.S. 932 (1961).
      When the place of imprisonment has been designated, and
    notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal, the defendant is usually
    transferred from the place of his temporary detention within the
    district of his conviction unless he has elected "not to commence
    service of the sentence." This transfer can be avoided only if the
    defendant makes the election, a course sometimes advised by counsel
    who may deem it necessary to consult with the defendant from time
    to time before the appeal is finally perfected. However, the
    election deprives the defendant of a right to claim credit for the
    time spent in jail pending the disposition of the appeal because 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3568 provides that the sentence of imprisonment
    commences, to run only from "the date on which such person is
    received at the penitentiary, reformatory, or jail for service of
    said sentence." See, e.g., Shelton v. United States, 234 F.2d 132
    (5th Cir. 1956).
      The amendment eliminates the procedure for election not to
    commence service of sentence. In lieu thereof it is provided that
    the court may recommend to the Attorney General that the defendant
    be retained at or transferred to a place of confinement near the
    place of trial or the place where the appeal is to be heard for the
    period reasonably necessary to permit the defendant to assist in
    the preparation of his appeal to the court of appeals. Under this
    procedure the defendant would no longer be required to serve dead
    time in a local jail in order to assist in preparation of his
    appeal.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1968 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivisions (b) and (c) of this rule relate to appeals, the
    provisions of which are transferred to and covered by the Federal
    Rules of Appellate Procedure. See Advisory Committee Note under
    rule 37.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 38(a)(2) is amended to reflect rule 9(b), Federal Rules of
    Appellate Procedure. The criteria for the stay of a sentence of
    imprisonment pending disposition of an appeal are those specified
    in rule 9(c) which incorporates 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3148 by reference.
      The last sentence of subdivision (a)(2) is retained although easy
    access to the defendant has become less important with the passage
    of the Criminal Justice Act which provides for compensation to the
    attorney to travel to the place at which the defendant is confined.
    Whether the court will recommend confinement near the place of
    trial or place where the appeal is to be heard will depend upon a
    balancing of convenience against the possible advantage of
    confinement at a more remote correctional institution where
    facilities and program may be more adequate.
      The amendment to subdivision (a)(4) gives the court discretion in
    deciding whether to stay the order placing the defendant on
    probation. It also makes mandatory the fixing of conditions for the
    stay if a stay is granted. The court cannot release the defendant
    pending appeal without either placing him on probation or fixing
    the conditions for the stay under the Bail Reform Act, 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3148.
      Former rule 38(a)(4) makes mandatory a stay of an order placing
    the defendant on probation whenever an appeal is noted. The court
    may or may not impose conditions upon the stay. See rule 46,
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure; and the Bail Reform Act, 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3148.
      Having the defendant on probation during the period of appeal may
    serve the objectives of both community protection and defendant
    rehabilitation. In current practice, the order of probation is
    sometimes stayed for an appeal period as long as two years. In a
    situation where the appeal is unsuccessful, the defendant must
    start under probation supervision after so long a time that the
    conditions of probation imposed at the time of initial sentencing
    may no longer appropriately relate either to the defendant's need
    for rehabilitation or to the community's need for protection. The
    purposes of probation are more likely to be served if the judge can
    exercise discretion, in appropriate cases, to require the defendant
    to be under probation during the period of appeal. The American Bar
    Association Project on Standards for Criminal Justice takes the
    position that prompt imposition of sentence aids in the
    rehabilitation of defendants, ABA Standards Relating to Pleas of
    Guilty Sec. 1.8(a)(i), Commentary p. 40 (Approved Draft, 1968). See
    also Sutherland and Cressey, Principles of Criminology 336 (1966).
      Under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3148 the court now has discretion to impose
    conditions of release which are necessary to protect the community
    against danger from the defendant. This is in contrast to release
    prior to conviction, where the only appropriate criterion is
    insuring the appearance of the defendant. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3146.
    Because the court may impose conditions of release to insure
    community protection, it seems appropriate to enable the court to
    do so by ordering the defendant to submit to probation supervision
    during the period of appeal, thus giving the probation service
    responsibility for supervision.
      A major difference between probation and release under 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3148 exists if the defendant violates the conditions imposed
    upon his release. In the event that release is under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3148, the violation of the condition may result in his being placed
    in custody pending the decision on appeal. If the appeal were
    unsuccessful, the order placing him on probation presumably would
    become effective at that time, and he would then be released under
    probation supervision. If the defendant were placed on probation,
    his violation of a condition could result in the imposition of a
    jail or prison sentence. If the appeal were unsuccessful, the jail
    or prison sentence would continue to be served.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2000 AMENDMENT             
      The rule is amended to reflect the creation of new Rule 32.2
    which now governs criminal forfeiture procedures.
      GAP Report - Rule 38. The Committee made no changes to the
    published draft.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 38 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The reference to Appellate Rule 9(b) is deleted. The Committee
    believed that the reference was unnecessary and its deletion was
    not intended to be substantive in nature.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, referred to in subds.
    (c), (e)(1), and (g), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.


-MISC2-
                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1984 - Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(1), substituted "Stay of
    Execution" for "Stay of Execution, and Relief Pending Review" in
    rule catchline.
      Subd. (a). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(1), struck out subd.
    heading "(a) Stay of Execution".
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(3), (4), redesignated subd. (a)(1) as
    (a), and inserted "from the conviction or sentence" after "is
    taken".
      Subd. (b). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(3), (5), redesignated
    subd. (a)(2) as (b), and inserted "from the conviction or sentence"
    after "is taken".
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(2), struck out subd. (b) relating to
    bail, which had been abrogated Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968.
      Subd. (c). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(3), redesignated subd.
    (a)(3) as (c).
      Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(2), struck out subd. (c) relating to
    application for relief pending review, which had been abrogated
    Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968.
      Subd. (d). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(3), (6), redesignated
    subd. (a)(4) as (d) and amended it generally. Prior to amendment,
    subd. (a)(4) read as follows: "An order placing the defendant on
    probation may be stayed if an appeal is taken. If not stayed, the
    court shall specify when the term of probation shall commence. If
    the order is stayed the court shall fix the terms of the stay."
      Subds. (e), (f). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(c)(7), added subds. (e)
    and (f).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Pub. L. 98-473 effective Nov. 1, 1987, and
    applicable only to offenses committed after the taking effect of
    such amendment, see section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473, set out as
    an Effective Date note under section 3551 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 39                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VII. POST-CONVICTION PROCEDURES

-HEAD-
    Rule 39. [Reserved]
-STATUTE-


-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND
      SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS                                  01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
             TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS         

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 40                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 40. Arrest for Failing to Appear in Another District or for
      Violating Conditions of Release Set in Another District

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. A person must be taken without unnecessary delay
    before a magistrate judge in the district of arrest if the person
    has been arrested under a warrant issued in another district for:
        (i) failing to appear as required by the terms of that person's
      release under 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3141-3156 or by a subpoena; or
        (ii) violating conditions of release set in another district.

      (b) Proceedings. The judge must proceed under Rule 5(c)(3) as
    applicable.
      (c) Release or Detention Order. The judge may modify any previous
    release or detention order issued in another district, but must
    state in writing the reasons for doing so.
      (d) Video Teleconferencing. Video teleconferencing may be used to
    conduct an appearance under this rule if the defendant consents.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Aug. 1, 1979; Pub. L. 96-42, Sec.
    1(2), July 31, 1979, 93 Stat. 326; Apr. 28, 1982, eff. Aug. 1,
    1982; Pub. L. 98-473, title II, Secs. 209(c), 215(d), Oct. 12,
    1984, 98 Stat. 1986, 2016; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr.
    25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr.
    29, 1994, eff. Dec. 1, 1994; Apr. 27, 1995, eff. Dec. 1, 1995; Apr.
    29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec. 1, 2006; Apr.
    26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule modifies and revamps existing procedure. The present
    practice has developed as a result of a series of judicial
    decisions, the only statute dealing with the subject being
    exceedingly general, 18 U.S.C. 591 [now 3041] (Arrest and removal
    for trial):

      For any crime or offense against the United States, the offender
    may, by any justice or judge of the United States, or by any United
    States commissioner, or by any chancellor, judge of a supreme or
    superior court, chief or first judge of common pleas, mayor of a
    city, justice of the peace, or other magistrate, of any State where
    he may be found, and agreeably to the usual mode of process against
    offenders in such State, and at the expense of the United States,
    be arrested and imprisoned, or bailed, as the case may be, for
    trial before such court of the United States as by law has
    cognizance of the offense. * * * Where any offender or witness is
    committed in any district other than that where the offense is to
    be tried, it shall be the duty of the judge of the district where
    such offender or witness is imprisoned, seasonably to issue, and of
    the marshal to execute, a warrant for his removal to the district
    where the trial is to be had.

    The scope of a removal hearing, the issues to be considered, and
    other similar matters are governed by judicial decisions, Beavers
    v. Henkel, 194 U.S. 73; Tinsley v. Treat, 205 U.S. 20; Henry v.
    Henkel, 235 U.S. 219; Rodman v. Pothier, 264 U.S. 399; Morse v.
    United States, 267 U.S. 80; Fetters v. United States ex rel.
    Cunningham, 283 U.S. 638; United States ex rel. Kassin v. Mulligan,
    295 U.S. 396; see, also, 9 Edmunds, Cyclopedia of Federal Procedure
    39053, et seq.
      2. The purpose of removal proceedings is to accord safeguards to
    a defendant against an improvident removal to a distant point for
    trial. On the other hand, experience has shown that removal
    proceedings have at times been used by defendants for dilatory
    purposes and in attempting to frustrate prosecution by preventing
    or postponing transportation even as between adjoining districts
    and between places a few miles apart. The object of the rule is
    adequately to meet each of these two situations.
      3. For the purposes of removal, all cases in which the accused is
    apprehended in a district other than that in which the prosecution
    is pending have been divided into two groups: first, those in which
    the place of arrest is either in another district of the same
    State, or if in another State, then less than 100 miles from the
    place where the prosecution is pending; and second, cases in which
    the arrest occurs in a State other than that in which the
    prosecution is pending and the place of arrest is 100 miles or more
    distant from the latter place.
      In the first group of cases, removal proceedings are abolished.
    The defendant's right to the usual preliminary hearing is, of
    course, preserved, but the committing magistrate, if he holds
    defendant would bind him over to the district court in which the
    prosecution is pending. As ordinarily there are no removal
    proceedings in State prosecutions as between different parts of the
    same State, but the accused is transported by virtue of the process
    under which he was arrested, it seems reasonable that no removal
    proceedings should be required in the Federal courts as between
    districts in the same State. The provision as to arrest in another
    State but at a place less than 100 miles from the place where the
    prosecution is pending was added in order to preclude obstruction
    against bringing the defendant a short distance for trial.
      In the second group of cases mentioned in the first paragraph,
    removal proceedings are continued. The practice to be followed in
    removal hearings will depend on whether the demand for removal is
    based upon an indictment or upon an information or complaint. In
    the latter case, proof of identity and proof of reasonable cause to
    believe the defendant guilty will have to be adduced in order to
    justify the issuance of a warrant of removal. In the former case,
    proof of identity coupled with a certified copy of the indictment
    will be sufficient, as the indictment will be conclusive proof of
    probable cause. The distinction is based on the fact that in case
    of an indictment, the grand jury, which is an arm of the court, has
    already found probable cause. Since the action of the grand jury is
    not subject to review by a district judge in the district in which
    the grand jury sits, it seems illogical to permit such review
    collaterally in a removal proceeding by a judge in another
    district.
      4. For discussions of this rule see, Homer Cummings, 29
    A.B.A.Jour. 654, 656; Holtzoff, 3 F.R.D. 445, 450-452; Holtzoff, 12
    George Washington L.R. 119, 127-130; Holtzoff, The Federal Bar
    Journal, October 1944, 18-37; Berge, 42 Mich.L.R. 353, 374;
    Medalie, 4 Lawyers Guild R. (3)1, 4.
      Note to Subdivision (b). The rule provides that all removal
    hearings shall take place before a United States commissioner or a
    Federal judge. It does not confer such jurisdiction on State or
    local magistrates. While theoretically under existing law State and
    local magistrates have authority to conduct removal hearings,
    nevertheless as a matter of universal practice, such proceedings
    are always conducted before a United States commissioner or a
    Federal judge, 9 Edmunds, Cyclopedia of Federal Procedure 3919.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment conforms to the change made in the corresponding
    procedure in Rule 5(b).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a) is amended to make clear that the person shall be
    taken before the federal magistrate "without unnecessary delay."
    Although the former rule was silent in this regard, it probably
    would have been interpreted to require prompt appearance, and there
    is therefore advantage in making this explicit in the rule itself.
    See C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec. 652
    (1969, Supp. 1971). Subdivision (a) is amended to also make clear
    that the person is to be brought before a "federal magistrate"
    rather than a state or local magistrate authorized by 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3041. The former rules were inconsistent in this regard.
    Although rule 40(a) provided that the person may be brought before
    a state or local officer authorized by former rule 5(a), such state
    or local officer lacks authority to conduct a preliminary
    examination under rule 5(c), and a principal purpose of the
    appearance is to hold a preliminary examination where no prior
    indictment or information has issued. The Federal Magistrates Act
    should make it possible to bring a person before a federal
    magistrate. See C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal
    Sec. 653, especially n.35 (1969, Supp. 1971).
      Subdivision (b)(2) is amended to provide that the federal
    magistrate should inform the defendant of the fact that he may
    avail himself of the provisions of rule 20 if applicable in the
    particular case. However, the failure to so notify the defendant
    should not invalidate the removal procedure. Although the old rule
    is silent in this respect, it is current practice to so notify the
    defendant, and it seems desirable, therefore, to make this explicit
    in the rule itself.
      The requirement that an order of removal under subdivision (b)(3)
    can be made only by a judge of the United States and cannot be made
    by a United States magistrate is retained. However, subdivision
    (b)(5) authorizes issuance of the warrant of removal by a United
    States magistrate if he is authorized to do so by a rule of
    district court adopted in accordance with 28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(b):
      Any district court * * * by the concurrence of a majority of all
    the judges * * * may establish rules pursuant to which any full-
    time United States magistrate * * * may be assigned * * * such
    additional duties as are not inconsistent with the Constitution and
    laws of the United States.
      Although former rule 40(b)(3) required that the warrant of
    removal be issued by a judge of the United States, there appears no
    constitutional or statutory prohibition against conferring this
    authority upon a United States magistrate in accordance with 28
    U.S.C. Sec. 636(b). The background history is dealt with in detail
    in 8A J. Moore, Federal Practice &#182;&#182; 40.01 and 40.02 (2d
    ed. Cipes 1970, Supp. 1971).
      Subdivision (b)(4) makes explicit reference to provisions of the
    Bail Reform Act of 1966 by incorporating a cross-reference to 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3146 and Sec. 3148.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      This substantial revision of rule 40 abolishes the present
    distinction between arrest in a nearby district and arrest in a
    distant district, clarifies the authority of the magistrate with
    respect to the setting of bail where bail had previously been fixed
    in the other district, adds a provision dealing with arrest of a
    probationer in a district other than the district of supervision,
    and adds a provision dealing with arrest of a defendant or witness
    for failure to appear in another district.
      Note to Subdivision (a). Under subdivision (a) of the present
    rule, if a person is arrested in a nearby district (another
    district in the same state, or a place less than 100 miles away),
    the usual rule 5 and 5.1 preliminary proceedings are conducted. But
    under subdivision (b) of the present rule, if a person is arrested
    in a distant district, then a hearing leading to a warrant of
    removal is held. New subdivision (a) would make no distinction
    between these two situations and would provide for rule 5 and 5.1
    proceedings in all instances in which the arrest occurs outside the
    district where the warrant issues or where the offense is alleged
    to have been committed.
      This abolition of the distinction between arrest in a nearby
    district and arrest in a distant district rests upon the conclusion
    that the procedures prescribed in rules 5 and 5.1 are adequate to
    protect the rights of an arrestee wherever he might be arrested. If
    the arrest is without a warrant, it is necessary under rule 5 that
    a complaint be filed forthwith complying with the requirements of
    rule 4(a) with respect to the showing of probable cause. If the
    arrest is with a warrant, that warrant will have been issued upon
    the basis of an indictment or of a complaint or information showing
    probable cause, pursuant to rules 4(a) and 9(a). Under rule 5.1
    dealing with the preliminary examination, the defendant is to be
    held to answer only upon a showing of probable cause that an
    offense has been committed and that the defendant committed it.
      Under subdivision (a), there are two situations in which no
    preliminary examination will be held. One is where "an indictment
    has been returned or an information filed," which pursuant to rule
    5(c) obviates the need for a preliminary examination. The order is
    where "the defendant elects to have the preliminary examination
    conducted in the district in which the prosecution is pending." A
    defendant might wish to elect that alternative when, for example,
    the law in that district is that the complainant and other material
    witnesses may be required to appear at the preliminary examination
    and give testimony. See Washington v. Clemmer, 339 F.2d 715 (D.C.
    Cir. 1964).
      New subdivision (a) continues the present requirement that if the
    arrest was without a warrant a warrant must thereafter issue in the
    district in which the offense is alleged to have been committed.
    This will ensure that in the district of anticipated prosecution
    there will have been a probable cause determination by a magistrate
    or grand jury.
      Note to Subdivision (b). New subdivision (b) follows existing
    subdivision (b)(2) in requiring the magistrate to inform the
    defendant of the provisions of rule 20 applicable in the particular
    case. Failure to so notify the defendant should not invalidate the
    proceedings.
      Note to Subdivision (c). New subdivision (c) follows existing
    subdivision (b)(4) as to transmittal of papers.
      Note to Subdivision (d). New subdivision (d) has no counterpart
    in the present rule. It provides a procedure for dealing with the
    situation in which a probationer is arrested in a district other
    than the district of supervision, consistent with 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3653, which provides in part:
        If the probationer shall be arrested in any district other than
      that in which he was last supervised, he shall be returned to the
      district in which the warrant was issued, unless jurisdiction
      over him is transferred as above provided to the district in
      which he is found, and in that case he shall be detained pending
      further proceedings in such district.
      One possibility, provided for in subdivision (d)(1), is that of
    transferring jurisdiction over the probationer to the district in
    which he was arrested. This is permissible under the aforementioned
    statute, which provides in part:
        Whenever during the period of his probation, a probationer
      heretofore or hereafter placed on probation, goes from the
      district in which he is being supervised to another district,
      jurisdiction over him may be transferred, in the discretion of
      the court, from the court for the district from which he goes to
      the court for the other district, with the concurrence of the
      latter court. Thereupon the court for the district to which
      jurisdiction is transferred shall have all power with respect to
      the probationer that was previously possessed by the court for
      the district from which the transfer is made, except that the
      period of probation shall not be changed without the consent of
      the sentencing court. This process under the same conditions may
      be repeated whenever during the period of this probation the
      probationer goes from the district in which he is being
      supervised to another district.
    Such transfer may be particularly appropriate when it is found that
    the probationer has now taken up residence in the district where he
    was arrested or where the alleged occurrence deemed to constitute a
    violation of probation took place in the district of arrest. In
    current practice, probationers arrested in a district other than
    that of their present supervision are sometimes unnecessarily
    returned to the district of their supervision, at considerable
    expense and loss of time, when the more appropriate course of
    action would have been transfer of probation jurisdiction.
      Subdivision (d)(2) and (3) deal with the situation in which there
    is not a transfer of probation jurisdiction to the district of
    arrest. If the alleged probation violation occurred in the district
    of arrest, then, under subdivision (d)(2), the preliminary hearing
    provided for in rule 32.1(a)(1) is to be held in that district.
    This is consistent with the reasoning in Morrissey v. Brewer, 408
    U.S. 471 (1972), made applicable to probation cases in Gagnon v.
    Scarpelli, 411 U.S. 778 (1973), where the Court stressed that often
    a parolee "is arrested at a place distant from the state
    institution, to which he may be returned before the final decision
    is made concerning revocation," and cited this as a factor
    contributing to the conclusion that due process requires "that some
    minimal inquiry be conducted at or reasonably near the place of the
    alleged parole violation or arrest and as promptly as convenient
    after arrest while information is fresh and sources are available."
    As later noted in Gerstein v. Pugh, 420 U.S. 103 (1975):
        In Morrissey v. Brewer * * * and Gagnon v. Scarpelli * * * we
      held that a parolee or probationer arrested prior to revocation
      is entitled to an informal preliminary hearing at the place of
      arrest, with some provision for live testimony. * * * That
      preliminary hearing, more than the probable cause determination
      required by the Fourth Amendment, serves the purpose of gathering
      and preserving live testimony, since the final revocation hearing
      frequently is held at some distance from the place where the
      violation occurred.
      However, if the alleged violation did not occur in that district,
    then first-hand testimony concerning the violation is unlikely to
    be available there, and thus the reasoning of Morrissey and
    Gerstein does not call for holding the preliminary hearing in that
    district. In such a case, as provided in subdivision (d)(3), the
    probationer should be held to answer in the district court of the
    district having probation jurisdiction. The purpose of the
    proceeding there provided for is to ascertain the identity of the
    probationer and provide him with copies of the warrant and the
    application for the warrant. A probationer is subject to the
    reporting condition at all times and is also subject to the
    continuing power of the court to modify such conditions. He
    therefore stands subject to return back to the jurisdiction
    district without the necessity of conducting a hearing in the
    district of arrest to determine whether there is probable cause to
    revoke his probation.
      Note to Subdivision (e). New subdivision (e) has no counterpart
    in the present rule. It has been added because some confusion
    currently exists as to whether present rule 40(b) is applicable to
    the case in which a bench warrant has issued for the return of a
    defendant or witness who has absented himself and that person is
    apprehended in a distant district. In Bandy v. United States, 408
    F.2d 518 (8th Cir. 1969), a defendant, who had been released upon
    his personal recognizance after conviction and while petitioning
    for certiorari and who failed to appear as required after
    certiorari was denied, objected to his later arrest in New York and
    removal to Leavenworth without compliance with the rule 40
    procedures. The court concluded:
        The short answer to Bandy's first argument is found in Rush v.
      United States, 290 F.2d 709, 710 (5 Cir. 1961): "The provisions
      of Rules 5 and 40, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 18
      U.S.C.A. may not be availed of by a prisoner in escape status * *
      *." As noted by Holtzoff, "Removal of Defendants in Federal
      Criminal Procedure", 4 F.R.D. 455, 458 (1946):
          "Resort need not be had, however, to this [removal] procedure
        for the purpose of returning a prisoner who has been recaptured
        after an escape from custody. It has been pointed out that in
        such a case the court may summarily direct his return under its
        general power to issue writs not specifically provided for by
        statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of its
        jurisdiction and agreeable to the usages and principles of law.
        In fact, in such a situation no judicial process appears
        necessary. The prisoner may be retaken and administratively
        returned to the custody from which he escaped."
      Bandy's arrest in New York was pursuant to a bench warrant issued
      by the United States District Court for the District of North
      Dakota on May 1, 1962, when Bandy failed to surrender himself to
      commence service of his sentence on the conviction for filing
      false income tax refunds. As a fugitive from justice, Bandy was
      not entitled upon apprehension to a removal hearing, and he was
      properly removed to the United States Penitentiary at
      Leavenworth, Kansas to commence service of sentence.
    Consistent with Bandy, new subdivision (e) does not afford such a
    person all of the protections provided for in subdivision (a).
    However, subdivision (e) does ensure that a determination of
    identity will be made before that person is held to answer in the
    district of arrest.
      Note to Subdivision (f). Although the matter of bail is dealt
    with in rule 46 and 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3146 and 3148, new subdivision
    (f) has been added to clarify the situation in which a defendant
    makes his initial appearance before the United States magistrate
    and there is a warrant issued by a judge of a different district
    who has endorsed the amount of bail on the warrant. The present
    ambiguity of the rule is creating practical administrative
    problems. If the United States magistrate concludes that a lower
    bail is appropriate, the judge who fixed the original bail on the
    warrant has, on occasion, expressed the view that this is
    inappropriate conduct by the magistrate. If the magistrate, in such
    circumstances, does not reduce the bail to the amount supported by
    all of the facts, there may be caused unnecessary inconvenience to
    the defendant, and there would arguably be a violation of at least
    the spirit of the Bail Reform Act and the Eighth Amendment.
      The Procedures Manual for United States Magistrates, issued under
    the authority of the Judicial Conference of the United States,
    provides in ch. 6, pp. 8-9:
        Where the arrest occurs in a "distant" district, the rules do
      not expressly limit the discretion of the magistrate in the
      setting of conditions of release. However, whether or not the
      magistrate in the district of arrest has authority to set his own
      bail under Rule 40, considerations of propriety and comity would
      dictate that the magistrate should not attempt to set bail in a
      lower amount than that fixed by a judge in another district. If
      an unusual situation should arise where it appears from all the
      information available to the magistrate that the amount of bail
      endorsed on the warrant is excessive, he should consult with a
      judge of his own district or with the judge in the other district
      who fixed the bail in order to resolve any difficulties. (Where
      an amount of bail is merely recommended on the indictment by the
      United States attorney, the magistrate has complete discretion in
      setting conditions of release.)
    Rule 40 as amended would encourage the above practice and hopefully
    would eliminate the present confusion and misunderstanding.
      The last sentence of subdivision (f) requires that the magistrate
    set forth the reasons for his action in writing whenever he fixes
    bail in an amount different from that previously fixed. Setting
    forth the reasons for the amount of bail fixed, certainly a sound
    practice in all circumstances, is particularly appropriate when the
    bail differs from that previously fixed in another district. The
    requirement that reasons be set out will ensure that the
    "considerations of propriety and comity" referred to above will be
    specifically taken into account.

           CONGRESSIONAL MODIFICATION OF PROPOSED 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Section 1(2) of Pub. L. 96-42 [set out as a note under section
    2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure] provided in
    part that the amendment proposed by the Supreme Court [in its order
    of Apr. 30, 1979] affecting rule 40 of the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure [this rule] would take effect on Aug. 1, 1979,
    as amended by that section. See 1979 Amendment note below.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to 40(d) is intended to make it clear that the
    transfer provisions therein apply whenever the arrest occurs other
    than in the district of probation jurisdiction, and that if
    probable cause is found at a preliminary hearing held pursuant to
    Rule 40(d)(2) the probationer should be held to answer in the
    district having probation jurisdiction.
      On occasion, the district of probation supervision and the
    district of probation jurisdiction will not be the same. See, e.g.,
    Cupp v. Byington, 179 F.Supp. 669 (S.D.Ind. 1960) (supervision in
    Southern District of Indiana, but jurisdiction never transferred
    from District of Nevada). In such circumstances, it is the district
    having jurisdiction which may revoke the defendant's probation.
    Cupp v. Byington, supra; 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3653 ("the court for the
    district having jurisdiction over him * * * may revoke the
    probation"; if probationer goes to another district, "jurisdiction
    over him may be transferred," and only then does "the court for the
    district to which jurisdiction is transferred * * * have all the
    power with respect to the probationer that was previously possessed
    by the court for the district from which the transfer was made").
    That being the case, that is the jurisdiction to which the
    probationer should be transferred as provided in Rule 40(d).
      Because Rule 32.1 has now taken effect, a cross-reference to
    those provisions has been made in subdivision (d)(1) so as to
    clarify how the magistrate is to proceed if jurisdiction is
    transferred.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1989 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments recognize that convicted defendants may be on
    supervised release as well as on probation. See 18 U.S.C. Secs.
    3583, and 3624(e).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (a) is intended to expedite
    determining where a defendant will be held to answer by permitting
    facsimile transmission of a warrant or a certified copy of the
    warrant. The amendment recognizes an increased reliance by the
    public in general, and the legal profession in particular, on
    accurate and efficient transmission of important legal documents by
    facsimile machines.
      The Rule is also amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements
    Act of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides
    that each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of
    title 28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1994 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (d) is intended to clarify the
    authority of a magistrate judge to set conditions of release in
    those cases where a probationer or supervised releasee is arrested
    in a district other than the district having jurisdiction. As
    written, there appeared to be a gap in Rule 40, especially under
    (d)(1) where the alleged violation occurs in a jurisdiction other
    than the district having jurisdiction.
      A number of rules contain references to pretrial, trial, and post-
    trial release or detention of defendants, probationers and
    supervised releasees. Rule 46, for example, addresses the topic of
    release from custody. Although Rule 46(c) addresses custody pending
    sentencing and notice of appeal, the rule makes no explicit
    provision for detaining or releasing probationers or supervised
    releasees who are later arrested for violating terms of their
    probation or release. Rule 32.1 provides guidance on proceedings
    involving revocation of probation or supervised release. In
    particular, Rule 32.1(a)(1) recognizes that when a person is held
    in custody on the ground that the person violated a condition of
    probation or supervised release, the judge or United States
    magistrate judge may release the person under Rule 46(c), pending
    the revocation proceeding. But no other explicit reference is made
    in Rule 32.1 to the authority of a judge or magistrate judge to
    determine conditions of release for a probationer or supervised
    releasee who is arrested in a district other than the district
    having jurisdiction.
      The amendment recognizes that a judge or magistrate judge
    considering the case of a probationer or supervised releasee under
    Rule 40(d) has the same authority vis a vis decisions regarding
    custody as a judge or magistrate judge proceeding under Rule
    32.1(a)(1). Thus, regardless of the ultimate disposition of an
    arrested probationer or supervised releasee under Rule 40(d), a
    judge or magistrate judge acting under that rule may rely upon Rule
    46(c) in determining whether custody should be continued and if
    not, what conditions, if any, should be placed upon the person.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1995 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to Rule 40(a) is a technical, conforming change to
    reflect an amendment to Rule 5, which recognizes a limited
    exception to the general rule that all arrestees must be taken
    before a federal magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 40 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Rule 40 has been completely revised. The Committee believed that
    it would be much clearer and more helpful to locate portions of
    Rule 40 in Rules 5 (initial appearances), 5.1 (preliminary
    hearings), and 32.1 (revocation or modification of probation or
    supervised release). Accordingly, current Rule 40(a) has been
    relocated in Rules 5 and 5.1. Current Rule 40(b) has been relocated
    in Rule 5(c)(2)(B) and current Rule 40(c) has been moved to Rule
    5(c)(2)(F).
      Current Rule 40(d) has been relocated in Rule 32.1(a)(5). The
    first sentence of current Rule 40(e) is now located in revised Rule
    40(a). The second sentence of current Rule 40(e) is now in revised
    Rule 40(b) and current Rule 40(f) is revised Rule 40(c).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a). Rule 40 currently refers only to a person
    arrested for failing to appear in another district. The amendment
    is intended to fill a perceived gap in the rule that a magistrate
    judge in the district of arrest lacks authority to set release
    conditions for a person arrested only for violation of conditions
    of release. See, e.g., United States v. Zhu, 215 F.R.D. 21, 26 (D.
    Mass. 2003). The Committee believes that it would be inconsistent
    for the magistrate judge to be empowered to release an arrestee who
    had failed to appear altogether, but not to release one who only
    violated conditions of release in a minor way. Rule 40(a) is
    amended to expressly cover not only failure to appear, but also
    violation of any other condition of release.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made
    minor clarifying changes in the published rule at the suggestion of
    the Style Committee.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (d). The amendment provides for video
    teleconferencing in order to bring the rule into conformity with
    Rule 5(f).
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The amendment was rephrased to track precisely the language of Rule
    5(f), on which it was modeled.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1984 - Subd. (d)(1). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 215(d), substituted
    "3605" for "3653".
      Subd. (f). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 209(c), substituted "Release or
    Detention" for "Bail" as the subdivision heading and, in text,
    substituted "If a person was previously detained or conditionally
    released, pursuant to chapter 207 of title 18, United States Code,"
    for "If bail was previously fixed", "decision previously made" for
    "amount of bail previously fixed", "by that decision" for "by the
    amount of bail previously fixed", and "amends the release or
    detention decision or alters the conditions of release" for "fixes
    bail different from that previously fixed".
      1979 - Subd. (d)(1). Pub. L. 96-42, Sec. 1(2)(A), struck out "in
    accordance with Rule 32.1(a)" after "Proceed in".
      Subd. (d)(2). Pub. L. 96-42, Sec. 1(2)(B), struck out "in
    accordance with Rule 32.1(a)(1)" after "Hold a prompt preliminary
    hearing".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1984 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by section 215(d) of Pub. L. 98-473 effective Nov. 1,
    1987, and applicable only to offenses committed after the taking
    effect of such amendment, see section 235(a)(1) of Pub. L. 98-473,
    set out as an Effective Date note under section 3551 of this title.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 41                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 41. Search and Seizure

-STATUTE-
      (a) Scope and Definitions.
        (1) Scope. This rule does not modify any statute regulating
      search or seizure, or the issuance and execution of a search
      warrant in special circumstances.
        (2) Definitions. The following definitions apply under this
      rule:
          (A) "Property" includes documents, books, papers, any other
        tangible objects, and information.
          (B) "Daytime" means the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00
        p.m. according to local time.
          (C) "Federal law enforcement officer" means a government
        agent (other than an attorney for the government) who is
        engaged in enforcing the criminal laws and is within any
        category of officers authorized by the Attorney General to
        request a search warrant.
          (D) "Domestic terrorism" and "international terrorism" have
        the meanings set out in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 2331.
          (E) "Tracking device" has the meaning set out in 18 U.S.C.
        Sec. 3117(b).

      (b) Authority to Issue a Warrant. At the request of a federal law
    enforcement officer or an attorney for the government:
        (1) a magistrate judge with authority in the district - or if
      none is reasonably available, a judge of a state court of record
      in the district - has authority to issue a warrant to search for
      and seize a person or property located within the district;
        (2) a magistrate judge with authority in the district has
      authority to issue a warrant for a person or property outside the
      district if the person or property is located within the district
      when the warrant is issued but might move or be moved outside the
      district before the warrant is executed;
        (3) a magistrate judge - in an investigation of domestic
      terrorism or international terrorism - with authority in any
      district in which activities related to the terrorism may have
      occurred has authority to issue a warrant for a person or
      property within or outside that district;
        (4) a magistrate judge with authority in the district has
      authority to issue a warrant to install within the district a
      tracking device; the warrant may authorize use of the device to
      track the movement of a person or property located within the
      district, outside the district, or both; and
        (5) a magistrate judge having authority in any district where
      activities related to the crime may have occurred, or in the
      District of Columbia, may issue a warrant for property that is
      located outside the jurisdiction of any state or district, but
      within any of the following:
          (A) a United States territory, possession, or commonwealth;
          (B) the premises - no matter who owns them - of a United
        States diplomatic or consular mission in a foreign state,
        including any appurtenant building, part of a building, or land
        used for the mission's purposes; or
          (C) a residence and any appurtenant land owned or leased by
        the United States and used by United States personnel assigned
        to a United States diplomatic or consular mission in a foreign
        state.

      (c) Persons or Property Subject to Search or Seizure. A warrant
    may be issued for any of the following:
        (1) evidence of a crime;
        (2) contraband, fruits of crime, or other items illegally
      possessed;
        (3) property designed for use, intended for use, or used in
      committing a crime; or
        (4) a person to be arrested or a person who is unlawfully
      restrained.

      (d) Obtaining a Warrant.
        (1) In General. After receiving an affidavit or other
      information, a magistrate judge - or if authorized by Rule 41(b),
      a judge of a state court of record - must issue the warrant if
      there is probable cause to search for and seize a person or
      property or to install and use a tracking device.
        (2) Requesting a Warrant in the Presence of a Judge.
          (A) Warrant on an Affidavit. When a federal law enforcement
        officer or an attorney for the government presents an affidavit
        in support of a warrant, the judge may require the affiant to
        appear personally and may examine under oath the affiant and
        any witness the affiant produces.
          (B) Warrant on Sworn Testimony. The judge may wholly or
        partially dispense with a written affidavit and base a warrant
        on sworn testimony if doing so is reasonable under the
        circumstances.
          (C) Recording Testimony. Testimony taken in support of a
        warrant must be recorded by a court reporter or by a suitable
        recording device, and the judge must file the transcript or
        recording with the clerk, along with any affidavit.

        (3) Requesting a Warrant by Telephonic or Other Reliable
      Electronic Means. In accordance with Rule 4.1, a magistrate judge
      may issue a warrant based on information communicated by
      telephone or other reliable electronic means.

      (e) Issuing the Warrant.
        (1) In General. The magistrate judge or a judge of a state
      court of record must issue the warrant to an officer authorized
      to execute it.
        (2) Contents of the Warrant.
          (A) Warrant to Search for and Seize a Person or Property.
        Except for a tracking-device warrant, the warrant must identify
        the person or property to be searched, identify any person or
        property to be seized, and designate the magistrate judge to
        whom it must be returned. The warrant must command the officer
        to:
            (i) execute the warrant within a specified time no longer
          than 14 days;
            (ii) execute the warrant during the daytime, unless the
          judge for good cause expressly authorizes execution at
          another time; and
            (iii) return the warrant to the magistrate judge designated
          in the warrant.

          (B) Warrant Seeking Electronically Stored Information. A
        warrant under Rule 41(e)(2)(A) may authorize the seizure of
        electronic storage media or the seizure or copying of
        electronically stored information. Unless otherwise specified,
        the warrant authorizes a later review of the media or
        information consistent with the warrant. The time for executing
        the warrant in Rule 41(e)(2)(A) and (f)(1)(A) refers to the
        seizure or on-site copying of the media or information, and not
        to any later off-site copying or review.
          (C) Warrant for a Tracking Device. A tracking-device warrant
        must identify the person or property to be tracked, designate
        the magistrate judge to whom it must be returned, and specify a
        reasonable length of time that the device may be used. The time
        must not exceed 45 days from the date the warrant was issued.
        The court may, for good cause, grant one or more extensions for
        a reasonable period not to exceed 45 days each. The warrant
        must command the officer to:
            (i) complete any installation authorized by the warrant
          within a specified time no longer than 10 days;
            (ii) perform any installation authorized by the warrant
          during the daytime, unless the judge for good cause expressly
          authorizes installation at another time; and
            (iii) return the warrant to the judge designated in the
          warrant.

      (f) Executing and Returning the Warrant.
        (1) Warrant to Search for and Seize a Person or Property.
          (A) Noting the Time. The officer executing the warrant must
        enter on it the exact date and time it was executed.
          (B) Inventory. An officer present during the execution of the
        warrant must prepare and verify an inventory of any property
        seized. The officer must do so in the presence of another
        officer and the person from whom, or from whose premises, the
        property was taken. If either one is not present, the officer
        must prepare and verify the inventory in the presence of at
        least one other credible person. In a case involving the
        seizure of electronic storage media or the seizure or copying
        of electronically stored information, the inventory may be
        limited to describing the physical storage media that were
        seized or copied. The officer may retain a copy of the
        electronically stored information that was seized or copied.
          (C) Receipt. The officer executing the warrant must give a
        copy of the warrant and a receipt for the property taken to the
        person from whom, or from whose premises, the property was
        taken or leave a copy of the warrant and receipt at the place
        where the officer took the property.
          (D) Return. The officer executing the warrant must promptly
        return it - together with a copy of the inventory - to the
        magistrate judge designated on the warrant. The officer may do
        so by reliable electronic means. The judge must, on request,
        give a copy of the inventory to the person from whom, or from
        whose premises, the property was taken and to the applicant for
        the warrant.

        (2) Warrant for a Tracking Device.
          (A) Noting the Time. The officer executing a tracking-device
        warrant must enter on it the exact date and time the device was
        installed and the period during which it was used.
          (B) Return. Within 10 days after the use of the tracking
        device has ended, the officer executing the warrant must return
        it to the judge designated in the warrant. The officer may do
        so by reliable electronic means.
          (C) Service. Within 10 days after the use of the tracking
        device has ended, the officer executing a tracking-device
        warrant must serve a copy of the warrant on the person who was
        tracked or whose property was tracked. Service may be
        accomplished by delivering a copy to the person who, or whose
        property, was tracked; or by leaving a copy at the person's
        residence or usual place of abode with an individual of
        suitable age and discretion who resides at that location and by
        mailing a copy to the person's last known address. Upon request
        of the government, the judge may delay notice as provided in
        Rule 41(f)(3).

        (3) Delayed Notice. Upon the government's request, a magistrate
      judge - or if authorized by Rule 41(b), a judge of a state court
      of record - may delay any notice required by this rule if the
      delay is authorized by statute.

      (g) Motion to Return Property. A person aggrieved by an unlawful
    search and seizure of property or by the deprivation of property
    may move for the property's return. The motion must be filed in the
    district where the property was seized. The court must receive
    evidence on any factual issue necessary to decide the motion. If it
    grants the motion, the court must return the property to the
    movant, but may impose reasonable conditions to protect access to
    the property and its use in later proceedings.
      (h) Motion to Suppress. A defendant may move to suppress evidence
    in the court where the trial will occur, as Rule 12 provides.
      (i) Forwarding Papers to the Clerk. The magistrate judge to whom
    the warrant is returned must attach to the warrant a copy of the
    return, of the inventory, and of all other related papers and must
    deliver them to the clerk in the district where the property was
    seized.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Apr. 9, 1956, eff.
    July 8, 1956; Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Mar. 18, 1974, eff.
    July 1, 1974; Apr. 26 and July 8, 1976, eff. Aug. 1, 1976; Pub. L.
    95-78, Sec. 2(e), July 30, 1977, 91 Stat. 320, eff. Oct. 1, 1977;
    Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Aug. 1, 1979; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987;
    Apr. 25, 1989, eff. Dec. 1, 1989; May 1, 1990, eff. Dec. 1, 1990;
    Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Pub. L. 107-56, title II, Sec.
    219, Oct. 26, 2001, 115 Stat. 291; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1,
    2002; Apr. 12, 2006, eff. Dec. 1, 2006; Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1,
    2008; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1,
    2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is a codification of existing law and practice.
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 611.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 612; Conyer v. United States, 80 F.2d 292
    (C.C.A. 6th). This provision does not supersede or repeal special
    statutory provisions permitting the issuance of search warrants in
    specific circumstances. See Subdivision (g) and Note thereto,
    infra.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 613-616, 620; Dumbra v. United States, 268
    U.S. 435.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 621-624.
      Note to Subdivision (e). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law and practice, with the exception hereafter noted, 18 U.S.C.
    [former] 625, 626; Weeks v. United States, 232 U.S. 383;
    Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U.S. 385; Agello v.
    United States, 269 U.S. 20; Gouled v. United States, 255 U.S. 298.
    While under existing law a motion to suppress evidence or to compel
    return of property obtained by an illegal search and seizure may be
    made either before a commissioner subject to review by the court on
    motion, or before the court, the rule provides that such motion may
    be made only before the court. The purpose is to prevent
    multiplication of proceedings and to bring the matter before the
    court in the first instance. While during the life of the
    Eighteenth Amendment when such motions were numerous it was a
    common practice in some districts for commissioners to hear such
    motions, the prevailing practice at the present time is to make
    such motions before the district court. This practice, which is
    deemed to be preferable, is embodied in the rule.
      Note to Subdivision (f). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 18 U.S.C. [former] 627; Cf. Rule 5(c) (last sentence).
      Note to Subdivision (g). While Rule 41 supersedes the general
    provisions of 18 U.S.C. 611-626 [now 18 U.S.C. 3105, 3109],
    relating to search warrants, it does not supersede, but preserves,
    all other statutory provisions permitting searches and seizures in
    specific situations. Among such statutes are the following:

    U.S.C., Title 18:

     Section 287 [former] (Search warrant for suspected counterfeiture)

    U.S.C., Title 19:

     Section 1595 (Customs duties; searches and seizures)

    U.S.C., Title 26:

     Section 3117 [now 5557] (Officers and agents authorized to
          investigate, issue search warrants, and prosecute for
          violations)

      For statutes which incorporate by reference 18 U.S.C. [former]
    98, and therefore are now controlled by this rule, see, e. g.:

    U.S.C., Title 18:

     Section 12 [former] (Subversive activities; undermining loyalty,
          discipline, or morale of armed forces; searches and seizures)

    U.S.C., Title 26:

     Section 3116 [now 7302] (Forfeitures and seizures)

          Statutory provision for a warrant for detention of war
        materials seized under certain circumstances is found in 22
        U.S.C. 402 [see 401] (Seizure of war materials intended for
        unlawful export.)

      Other statutes providing for searches and seizures or entry
    without warrants are the following:

    U.S.C., Title 19:

     Section 482 (Search of vehicles and persons)

    U.S.C., Title 25:

     Section 246 [now 18 U.S.C. 3113] (Searches and seizures)

    U.S.C., Title 26:

     Section 3601 [now 7606] (Entry of premises for examination of
          taxable objects)

    U.S.C., Title 29:

     Section 211 (Investigations, inspections, and records)

    U.S.C., Title 49:

     Section 781 [now 80302] (Unlawful use of vessels, vehicles, and
          aircrafts; contraband article defined)
     Section 782 [now 80303] (Seizure and forfeiture)
     Section 784 [now 80306] (Application of related laws)

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1948 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (b)(3). - The amendment is to substitute proper
    reference to Title 18 in place of the repealed acts.
      Subdivision (g). - To eliminate reference to sections of the Act
    of June 15, 1917, c. 30, which have been repealed by the Act of
    June 25, 1948, c. 645, which enacted Title 18.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a) is amended to provide that a search warrant may
    be issued only upon the request of a federal law enforcement
    officer or an attorney for the government. The phrase "federal law
    enforcement officer" is defined in subdivision (h) in a way which
    will allow the Attorney General to designate the category of
    officers who are authorized to make application for a search
    warrant. The phrase "attorney for the government" is defined in
    rule 54.
      The title to subdivision (b) is changed to make it conform more
    accurately to the content of the subdivision. Subdivision (b) is
    also changed to modernize the language used to describe the
    property which may be seized with a lawfully issued search warrant
    and to take account of a recent Supreme Court decision (Warden v.
    Haden, 387 U.S. 294 (1967)) and recent congressional action (18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3103a) which authorize the issuance of a search warrant
    to search for items of solely evidential value. 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3103a provides that "a warrant may be issued to search for and
    seize any property that constitutes evidence of a criminal offense.
    . . ."
      Recent state legislation authorizes the issuance of a search
    warrant for evidence of crime. See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code Sec.
    1524(4) (West Supp. 1968); Ill.Rev.Stat. ch. 38, Sec. 108-3 (1965);
    LSA C.Cr.P. art. 161 (1967); N.Y. CPL Sec. 690.10(4) (McKinney,
    1971); Ore.Rev.Stat. Sec. 141.010 (1969); Wis.Stat. Sec. 968.13(2)
    (1969).
      The general weight of recent text and law review comment has been
    in favor of allowing a search for evidence. 8 Wigmore, Evidence
    Sec. 2184a. (McNaughton rev. 1961); Kamisar. The Wiretapping-
    Eavesdropping Problem: A professor's View, 44 Minn.L.Rev. 891
    (1960); Kaplan, Search and Seizure: A No-Man's Land in the Criminal
    Law, 49 Calif.L.Rev. 474 (1961); Comments: 66 Colum.L.Rev. 355
    (1966), 45 N.C.L.Rev. 512 (1967), 20 U.Chi.L.Rev. 319 (1953).
      There is no intention to limit the protection of the fifth
    amendment against compulsory self-incrimination, so items which are
    solely "testimonial" or "communicative" in nature might well be
    inadmissible on those grounds. Schmerber v. California, 384 U.S.
    757 (1966). The court referred to the possible fifth amendment
    limitation in Warden v. Hayden, supra:
      This case thus does not require that we consider whether there
    are items of evidential value whose very nature precludes them from
    being the object of a reasonable search and seizure. [387 U.S. at
    303].
      See ALI Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure Sec. 551.03(2)
    and commentary at pp. 3-5 (April 30, 1971).
      It seems preferable to allow the fifth amendment limitation to
    develop as cases arise rather than attempt to articulate the
    constitutional doctrine as part of the rule itself.
      The amendment to subdivision (c) is intended to make clear that a
    search warrant may properly be based upon a finding of probable
    cause based upon hearsay. That a search warrant may properly be
    issued on the basis of hearsay is current law. See, e.g., Jones v.
    United States, 362 U.S. 257 (1960); Spinelli v. United States, 393
    U.S. 410 (1969). See also State v. Beal, 40 Wis.2d 607, 162 N.W.2d
    640 (1968), reversing prior Wisconsin cases which held that a
    search warrant could not properly issue on the basis of hearsay
    evidence.
      The provision in subdivision (c) that the magistrate may examine
    the affiant or witnesses under oath is intended to assure him an
    opportunity to make a careful decision as to whether there is
    probable cause. It seems desirable to do this as an incident to the
    issuance of the warrant rather than having the issue raised only
    later on a motion to suppress the evidence. See L. Tiffany, D.
    McIntyre, and D. Rotenberg, Detection of Crime 118 (1967). If
    testimony is taken it must be recorded, transcribed, and made part
    of the affidavit or affidavits. This is to insure an adequate basis
    for determining the sufficiency of the evidentiary grounds for the
    issuance of the search warrant if that question should later arise.
      The requirement that the warrant itself state the grounds for its
    issuance and the names of any affiants, is eliminated as
    unnecessary paper work. There is no comparable requirement for an
    arrest warrant in rule 4. A person who wishes to challenge the
    validity of a search warrant has access to the affidavits upon
    which the warrant was issued.
      The former requirement that the warrant require that the search
    be conducted "forthwith" is changed to read "within a specified
    period of time not to exceed 10 days." The former rule contained an
    inconsistency between subdivision (c) requiring that the search be
    conducted "forthwith" and subdivision (d) requiring execution
    "within 10 days after its date." The amendment resolves this
    ambiguity and confers discretion upon the issuing magistrate to
    specify the time within which the search may be conducted to meet
    the needs of the particular case.
      The rule is also changed to allow the magistrate to authorize a
    search at a time other than "daytime," where there is "reasonable
    cause shown" for doing so. To make clear what "daytime" means, the
    term is defined in subdivision (h).
      Subdivision (d) is amended to conform its language to the Federal
    Magistrates Act. The language "The warrant may be executed and
    returned only within 10 days after its date" is omitted as
    unnecessary. The matter is now covered adequately in proposed
    subdivision (c) which gives the issuing officer authority to fix
    the time within which the warrant is to be executed.
      The amendment to subdivision (e) and the addition of subdivision
    (f) are intended to require the motion to suppress evidence to be
    made in the trial court rather than in the district in which the
    evidence was seized as now allowed by the rule. In DiBella v.
    United States, 369 U.S. 121 (1962), the court, in effect,
    discouraged motions to suppress in the district in which the
    property was seized:
      There is a decision in the Second Circuit, United States v.
    Klapholz, 230 F.2d 494 (1956), allowing the Government an appeal
    from an order granting a post-indictment motion to suppress,
    apparently for the single reason that the motion was filed in the
    district of seizure rather than of trial; but the case was soon
    thereafter taken by a District Court to have counseled declining
    jurisdiction of such motions for reasons persuasive against
    allowing the appeal: "This course will avoid a needless duplication
    of effort by two courts and provide a more expeditious resolution
    of the controversy besides avoiding the risk of determining
    prematurely and inadequately the admissibility of evidence at the
    trial. . . . A piecemeal adjudication such as that which would
    necessarily follow from a disposition of the motion here might
    conceivably result in prejudice either to the Government or the
    defendants, or both." United States v. Lester, 21 F.R.D. 30, 31
    (D.C.S.D.N.Y. 1957). Rule 41(e), of course, specifically provides
    for making of the motion in the district of seizure On a summary
    hearing, however, the ruling there is likely always to be
    tentative. We think it accords most satisfactorily with sound
    administration of the Rules to treat such rulings as interlocutory.
    [369 U.S. at 132-133.]
      As amended, subdivision (e) provides for a return of the property
    if (1) the person is entitled to lawful possession and (2) the
    seizure was illegal. This means that the judge in the district of
    seizure does not have to decide the legality of the seizure in
    cases involving contraband which, even if seized illegally, is not
    to be returned.
      The five grounds for returning the property, presently listed in
    the rule, are dropped for two reasons - (1) substantive grounds for
    objecting to illegally obtained evidence (e.g., Miranda) are not
    ordinarily codified in the rules and (2) the categories are not
    entirely accurate. See United States v. Howard, 138 F.Supp. 376,
    380 (D.Md. 1956).
      A sentence is added to subdivision (e) to provide that a motion
    for return of property, made in the district of trial, shall be
    treated also as a motion to suppress under rule 12. This change is
    intended to further the objective of rule 12 which is to have all
    pretrial motions disposed of in a single court appearance rather
    than to have a series of pretrial motions made on different dates,
    causing undue delay in administration.
      Subdivision (f) is new and reflects the position that it is best
    to have the motion to suppress made in the court of the district of
    trial rather than in the court of the district in which the seizure
    occurred. The motion to suppress in the district of trial should be
    made in accordance with the provisions of rule 12.
      Subdivision (g) is changed to conform to subdivision (c) which
    requires the return to be made before a federal judicial officer
    even though the search warrant may have been issued by a nonfederal
    magistrate.
      Subdivision (h) is former rule 41(g) with the addition of a
    definition of the term "daytime" and the phrase "federal law
    enforcement officer."

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment restores the words "court of record" which were
    inadvertently omitted from the amended text of the subdivision
    which was transmitted by the Judicial Conference to the Supreme
    Court and prescribed by the Court on April 24, 1972.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1977 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 41(c)(2) is added to establish a procedure for the issuance
    of a search warrant when it is not reasonably practicable for the
    person obtaining the warrant to present a written affidavit to a
    magistrate or a state judge as required by subdivision (c)(1). At
    least two states have adopted a similar procedure, Ariz.Rev.Stat.
    Ann. Secs. 13-1444(c)-1445(c) (Supp. 1973); Cal.Pen. Code Secs.
    1526(b), 1528(b) (West Supp. 1974), and comparable amendments are
    under consideration in other jurisdictions. See Israel, Legislative
    Regulation of Searches and Seizures: The Michigan Proposals, 73
    Mich.L.Rev. 221, 258-63 (1975); Nakell, Proposed Revisions of North
    Carolina's Search and Seizure Law, 52 N.Car.L.Rev. 277, 306-11
    (1973). It has been strongly recommended that "every State enact
    legislation that provides for the issuance of search warrants
    pursuant to telephoned petitions and affidavits from police
    officers." National Advisory Commission on Criminal Justice
    Standards and Goals, Report on Police 95 (1973). Experience with
    the procedure has been most favorable. Miller, Telephonic Search
    Warrants: The San Diego Experience, 9 The Prosecutor 385 (1974).
      The trend of recent Supreme Court decisions has been to give
    greater priority to the use of a search warrant as the proper way
    of making a lawful search:
        It is a cardinal rule that, in seizing goods and articles, law
      enforcement agents must secure and use search warrants whenever
      reasonably practicable. . . . This rule rests upon the
      desirability of having magistrates rather than police officers
      determine when searches and seizures are permissible and what
      limitations should be placed upon such activities. Trupiano v.
      United States, 334 U.S. 699, 705 (1948), quoted with approval in
      Chimel v. California, 395 U.S. 752, 758 (1969).
    See also Coolidge v. New Hampshire, 403 U.S. 443 (1971); Note,
    Chambers v. Maroney: New Dimensions in the Law of Search and
    Seizure, 46 Indiana L.J. 257, 262 (1971).
      Use of search warrants can best be encouraged by making it
    administratively feasible to obtain a warrant when one is needed.
    One reason for the nonuse of the warrant has been the
    administrative difficulties involved in getting a warrant,
    particularly at times of the day when a judicial officer is
    ordinarily unavailable. See L. Tiffany, D. McIntyre, and D.
    Rotenberg, Detection of Crime 105-116 (1967); LaFave, Improving
    Police Performance Through the Exclusionary Rule, 30 Mo.L.Rev. 391,
    411 (1965). Federal law enforcement officers are not infrequently
    confronted with situations in which the circumstances are not
    sufficiently "exigent" to justify the serious step of conducting a
    warrantless search of private premises, but yet there exists a
    significant possibility that critical evidence would be lost in the
    time it would take to obtain a search warrant by traditional means.
    See, e.g., United States v. Johnson, - F.2d - (D.C. Cir. June 16,
    1975).
      Subdivision (c)(2) provides that a warrant may be issued on the
    basis of an oral statement of a person not in the physical presence
    of the federal magistrate. Telephone, radio, or other electronic
    methods of communication are contemplated. For the warrant to
    properly issue, four requirements must be met:
      (1) The applicant - a federal law enforcement officer or an
    attorney for the government, as required by subdivision (a) - must
    persuade the magistrate that the circumstances of time and place
    make it reasonable to request the magistrate to issue a warrant on
    the basis of oral testimony. This restriction on the issuance of a
    warrant recognizes the inherent limitations of an oral warrant
    procedure, the lack of demeanor evidence, and the lack of a written
    record for the reviewing magistrate to consider before issuing the
    warrant. See Comment, Oral Search Warrants: A New Standard of
    Warrant Availability, 21 U.C.L.A. Law Review 691, 701 (1974).
    Circumstances making it reasonable to obtain a warrant on oral
    testimony exist if delay in obtaining the warrant might result in
    the destruction or disappearance of the property [see Chimel v.
    California, 395 U.S. 752, 773-774 (1969) (White, dissenting);
    Landynski, The Supreme Court's Search for Fourth Amendment
    Standards: The Warrantless Search, 45 Conn.B.J. 2, 25 (1971)]; or
    because of the time when the warrant is sought, the distance from
    the magistrate of the person seeking the warrant, or both.
      (2) The applicant must orally state facts sufficient to satisfy
    the probable cause requirement for the issuance of the search
    warrant. (See subdivision (c)(1).) This information may come from
    either the applicant federal law enforcement officer or the
    attorney for the government or a witness willing to make an oral
    statement. The oral testimony must be recorded at this time so that
    the transcribed affidavit will provide an adequate basis for
    determining the sufficiency of the evidence if that issue should
    later arise. See Kipperman. Inaccurate Search Warrant Affidavits as
    a Ground for Suppressing Evidence, 84 Harv.L.Rev. 825 (1971). It is
    contemplated that the recording of the oral testimony will be made
    by a court reporter, by a mechanical recording device, or by a
    verbatim contemporaneous writing by the magistrate. Recording a
    telephone conversation is no longer difficult with many easily
    operated recorders available. See 86:2 L.A. Daily Journal 1 (1973);
    Miller, Telephonic Search Warrants: The San Diego Experience, 9 The
    Prosecutor 385, 386 (1974).
      (3) The applicant must read the contents of the warrant to the
    federal magistrate in order to enable the magistrate to know
    whether the requirements of certainty in the warrant are satisfied.
    The magistrate may direct that changes be made in the warrant. If
    the magistrate approves the warrant as requested or as modified by
    the magistrate, he then issues the warrant by directing the
    applicant to sign the magistrate's name to the duplicate original
    warrant. The magistrate then causes to be made a written copy of
    the approved warrant. This constitutes the original warrant. The
    magistrate enters the time of issuance of the duplicate original
    warrant on the face of the original warrant.
      (4) Return of the duplicate original warrant and the original
    warrant must conform to subdivision (d). The transcript of the
    sworn oral testimony setting forth the grounds for issuance of the
    warrant must be signed by affiant in the presence of the magistrate
    and filed with the court.
      Because federal magistrates are likely to be accessible through
    the use of the telephone or other electronic devices, it is
    unnecessary to authorize state judges to issue warrants under
    subdivision (c)(2).
      Although the procedure set out in subdivision (c)(2) contemplates
    resort to technology which did not exist when the Fourth Amendment
    was adopted, the Advisory Committee is of the view that the
    procedure complies with all of the requirements of the Amendment.
    The telephonic search warrant process has been upheld as
    constitutional by the courts, e.g., People v. Peck, 38 Cal.App.3d
    993, 113 Cal.Rptr. 806 (1974), and has consistently been so viewed
    by commentators. See Israel, Legislative Regulation of Searches and
    Seizures: The Michigan Proposals, 73 Mich.L.Rev. 221, 260 (1975);
    Nakell, Proposed Revisions of North Carolina's Search and Seizure
    Law, 52 N.Car.L.Rev. 277, 310 (1973); Comment, Oral Search
    Warrants: A New Standard of Warrant Availability, 21 U.C.L.A.Rev.
    691, 697 (1973).
      Reliance upon oral testimony as a basis for issuing a search
    warrant is permissible under the Fourth Amendment. Campbell v.
    Minnesota, 487 F.2d 1 (8th Cir. 1973); United States ex rel.
    Gaugler v. Brierley, 477 F.2d 516 (3d Cir. 1973); Tabasko v.
    Barton, 472 F.2d 871 (6th Cir. 1972); Frazier v. Roberts, 441 F.2d
    1224 (8th Cir. 1971). Thus, the procedure authorized under
    subdivision (c)(2) is not objectionable on the ground that the oral
    statement is not transcribed in advance of the issuance of the
    warrant. People v. Peck, 38 Cal.App.3d 993, 113 Cal.Rptr. 806
    (1974). Although it has been questioned whether oral testimony will
    suffice under the Fourth Amendment if some kind of contemporaneous
    record is not made of that testimony, see dissent from denial of
    certiorari in Christofferson v. Washington, 393 U.S. 1090 (1969),
    this problem is not present under the procedure set out in
    subdivision (c)(2).
      The Fourth Amendment requires that warrants issue "upon probable
    cause, supported by Oath or affirmation." The significance of the
    oath requirement is "that someone must take the responsibility for
    the facts alleged, giving rise to the probable cause for the
    issuance of a warrant." United States ex rel. Pugh v. Pate, 401
    F.2d 6 (7th Cir. 1968); See also Frazier v. Roberts, 441 F.2d 1224
    (8th Cir. 1971). This is accomplished under the procedure required
    by subdivision (c)(2); the need for an oath under the Fourth
    Amendment does not "require a face to face confrontation between
    the magistrate and the affiant." People v. Chavaz, 27 Cal.App.3d
    883, 104 Cal.Rptr. 247 (1972). See also People v. Aguirre, 26
    Cal.App.3d 7, 103 Cal.Rptr. 153 (1972), noting it is unnecessary
    that "oral statements [be] taken in the physical presence of the
    magistrate."
      The availability of the procedure authorized by subdivision
    (c)(2) will minimize the necessity of federal law enforcement
    officers engaging in other practices which, at least on occasion,
    might threaten to a greater extent those values protected by the
    Fourth Amendment. Although it is permissible for an officer in the
    field to relay his information by radio or telephone to another
    officer who has more ready access to a magistrate and who will thus
    act as the affiant, Lopez v. United States, 370 F.2d 8 (5th Cir.
    1966); State v. Banks, 250 N.C. 728, 110 S.E.2d 322 (1959), that
    procedure is less desirable than that permitted under subdivision
    (c)(2), for it deprives "the magistrate of the opportunity to
    examine the officer at the scene, who is in a much better position
    to answer questions relating to probable cause and the requisite
    scope of the search." Israel, Legislative Regulation of Searches
    and Seizures: The Michigan Proposals, 73 Mich.L.Rev. 221, 260
    (1975). Or, in the absence of the subdivision (c)(2) procedure,
    officers might take "protective custody" of the premises and
    occupants for a significant period of time while a search warrant
    was sought by traditional means. The extent to which the
    "protective custody" procedure may be employed consistent with the
    Fourth Amendment is uncertain at best; see Griswold, Criminal
    Procedure, 1969 - Is It a Means or an End?, 29 Md.L.Rev. 307, 317
    (1969). The unavailability of the subdivision (c)(2) procedure also
    makes more tempting an immediate resort to a warrantless search in
    the hope that the circumstances will later be found to have been
    sufficiently "exigent" to justify such a step. See Miller,
    Telephonic Search Warrants: The San Diego Experience, 9 The
    Prosecutor 385, 386 (1974), noting a dramatic increase in police
    utilization of the warrant process following enactment of a
    telephonic warrant statute.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, SENATE REPORT NO. 95-354; 1977
                 AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY THE SUPREME COURT
      The committee agrees with the Supreme Court that it is desirable
    to encourage Federal law enforcement officers to seek search
    warrants in situations where they might otherwise conduct
    warrantless searches by providing for a telephone search warrant
    procedure with the basic characteristics suggested in the proposed
    Rule 41(c)(2). As the Supreme Court has observed, "It is a cardinal
    rule that, in seizing goods and articles, law enforcement agents
    must secure and use search warrants whenever reasonably
    practicable." After consideration of the Supreme Court version and
    a proposal set forth in H.R. 7888, the committee decided to use the
    language of the House bill as the vehicle, with certain
    modifications.
      A new provision, as indicated in subparagraph (c)(2)(A), is added
    to establish a procedure for the issuance of a search warrant where
    the circumstances make it reasonable to dispense with a written
    affidavit to be presented in person to a magistrate. At least two
    States have adopted a similar procedure - Arizona and California -
    and comparable amendments are under consideration in other
    jurisdictions. Such a procedure has been strongly recommended by
    the National Advisory Commission on Criminal Justice Standards and
    Goals and State experience with the procedure has been favorable.
    The telephone search warrant process has been upheld as
    constitutional by the courts and has consistently been so viewed by
    commentators.
      In recommending a telephone search warrant procedure, the
    Advisory Committee note on the Supreme Court proposal points out
    that the preferred method of conducting a search is with a search
    warrant. The note indicates that the rationale for the proposed
    change is to encourage Federal law enforcement officers to seek
    search warrants in situations when they might otherwise conduct
    warrantless searches. "Federal law enforcement officers are not
    infrequently confronted with situations in which the circumstances
    are not sufficiently 'exigent' to justify the serious step of
    conducting a warrantless search of private premises, but yet there
    exists a significant possibility that critical evidence would be
    lost in the time it would take to obtain a search warrant by
    traditional means."
      Subparagraph (c)(2)(B) provides that the person requesting the
    warrant shall prepare a "duplicate original warrant" which will be
    read and recorded verbatim by the magistrate on an "original
    warrant." The magistrate may direct that the warrant be modified.
      Subparagraph (c)(2)(C) provides that, if the magistrate is
    satisfied that the circumstances are such as to make it reasonable
    to dispense with a written affidavit and that grounds for the
    application exist or there is probable cause to believe that they
    exist, he shall order the issuance of the warrant by directing the
    requestor to sign the magistrate's name on the duplicate original
    warrant. The magistrate is required to sign the original warrant
    and enter the time of issuance thereon. The finding of probable
    cause may be based on the same type of evidence appropriate for a
    warrant upon affidavit.
      Subparagraph (c)(2)(D) requires the magistrate to place the
    requestor and any witness under oath and, if a voice recording
    device is available, to record the proceeding. If a voice recording
    is not available, the proceeding must be recorded verbatim
    stenographically or in longhand. Verified copies must be filed with
    the court as specified.
      Subparagraph (c)(2)(E) provides that the contents of the warrant
    upon oral testimony shall be the same as the contents of a warrant
    upon affidavit.
      Subparagraph (c)(2)(F) provides that the person who executes the
    warrant shall enter the exact time of execution on the face of the
    duplicate original warrant. Unlike H.R. 7888, this subparagraph
    does not require the person who executes the warrant to have
    physical possession of the duplicate original warrant at the time
    of the execution of the warrant. The committee believes this would
    make an unwise and unnecessary distinction between execution of
    regular warrants issued on written affidavits and warrants issued
    by telephone that would limit the flexibility and utility of this
    procedure for no useful purpose.
      Finally, subparagraph (c)(2)(G) makes it clear that, absent a
    finding of bad faith by the government, the magistrate's judgment
    that the circumstances made it reasonable to dispense with a
    written affidavit - a decision that does not go to the core
    question of whether there was probable cause to issue a warrant -
    is not a ground for granting a motion to suppress evidence.

           CONGRESSIONAL MODIFICATION OF PROPOSED 1977 AMENDMENT       
      Section 2(e) of Pub. L. 95-78 provided in part that the amendment
    by the Supreme Court [in its order of Apr. 26, 1976] to subdivision
    (c) of rule 41 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure [subd.
    (c) of this rule] is approved in a modified form.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      This amendment to Rule 41 is intended to make it possible for a
    search warrant to issue to search for a person under two
    circumstances: (i) when there is probable cause to arrest that
    person; or (ii) when that person is being unlawfully restrained.
    There may be instances in which a search warrant would be required
    to conduct a search in either of these circumstances. Even when a
    search warrant would not be required to enter a place to search for
    a person, a procedure for obtaining a warrant should be available
    so that law enforcement officers will be encouraged to resort to
    the preferred alternative of acquiring "an objective
    predetermination of probable cause" Katz v. United States, 389 U.S.
    347, 88 S.Ct. 507, 19 L.Ed.2d 576 (1967), in this instance, that
    the person sought is at the place to be searched.
      That part of the amendment which authorizes issuance of a search
    warrant to search for a person unlawfully restrained is consistent
    with ALI Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure Sec. SS
    210.3(1)(d) (Proposed Official Draft, 1975), which specifies that a
    search warrant may issue to search for "an individual * * * who is
    unlawfully held in confinement or other restraint." As noted in the
    Commentary thereto, id. at p. 507:
      Ordinarily such persons will be held against their will and in
      that case the persons are, of course, not subject to "seizure."
      But they are, in a sense, "evidence" of crime, and the use of
      search warrants for these purposes presents no conceptual
      difficulties.
      Some state search warrant provisions also provide for issuance of
    a warrant in these circumstances. See, e. g., Ill.Rev.Stat. ch. 38,
    Sec. 108-3 ("Any person who has been kidnapped in violation of the
    laws of this State, or who has been kidnapped in another
    jurisdiction and is now concealed within this State").
      It may be that very often exigent circumstances, especially the
    need to act very promptly to protect the life or well-being of the
    kidnap victim, would justify an immediate warrantless search for
    the person restrained. But this is not inevitably the case.
    Moreover, as noted above there should be available a process
    whereby law enforcement agents may acquire in advance a judicial
    determination that they have cause to intrude upon the privacy of
    those at the place where the victim is thought to be located.
      That part of the amendment which authorizes issuance of a search
    warrant to search for a person to be arrested is also consistent
    with ALI Model Code of Pre-Arraignment Procedure Sec. SS
    210.3(1)(d) (Proposed Official Draft, 1975), which states that a
    search warrant may issue to search for "an individual for whose
    arrest there is reasonable cause." As noted in the Commentary
    thereto, id. at p. 507, it is desirable that there be "explicit
    statutory authority for such searches." Some state search warrant
    provisions also expressly provide for the issuance of a search
    warrant to search for a person to be arrested. See, e. g., Del.Code
    Ann. tit. 11, Sec. 2305 ("Persons for whom a warrant of arrest has
    been issued"). This part of the amendment to Rule 41 covers a
    defendant or witness for whom an arrest warrant has theretofore
    issued, or a defendant for whom grounds to arrest exist even though
    no arrest warrant has theretofore issued. It also covers the arrest
    of a deportable alien under 8 U.S.C. Sec. 1252, whose presence at a
    certain place might be important evidence of criminal conduct by
    another person, such as the harboring of undocumented aliens under
    8 U.S.C. Sec. 1324(a)(3).
      In United States v. Watson, 423 U.S. 411, 96 S.Ct. 820, 46
    L.Ed.2d 598 (1976), the Court once again alluded to "the still
    unsettled question" of whether, absent exigent circumstances,
    officers acting without a warrant may enter private premises to
    make an arrest. Some courts have indicated that probable cause
    alone ordinarily is sufficient to support an arrest entry. United
    States v. Fernandez, 480 F.2d 726 (2d Cir. 1973); United States ex
    rel. Wright v. Woods, 432 F.2d 1143 (7th Cir. 1970). There exists
    some authority, however, that except under exigent circumstances a
    warrant is required to enter the defendant's own premises, United
    States v. Calhoun, 542 F.2d 1094 (9th Cir. 1976); United States v.
    Lindsay, 506 F.2d 166 (D.C.Cir. 1974); Dorman v. United States, 435
    F.2d 385 (D.C.Cir. 1970), or, at least, to enter the premises of a
    third party, Virgin Islands v. Gereau, 502 F.2d 914 (3d Cir. 1974);
    Fisher v. Volz, 496 F.2d 333 (3d Cir. 1974); Huotari v. Vanderport,
    380 F.Supp. 645 (D.Minn. 1974).
      It is also unclear, assuming a need for a warrant, what kind of
    warrant is required, although it is sometimes assumed that an
    arrest warrant will suffice, e. g., United States v. Calhoun,
    supra; United States v. James, 528 F.2d 999 (5th Cir. 1976). There
    is a growing body of authority, however, that what is needed to
    justify entry of the premises of a third party to arrest is a
    search warrant, e. g., Virgin Islands v. Gereau, supra; Fisher v.
    Volz, supra. The theory is that if the privacy of this third party
    is to be protected adequately, what is needed is a probable cause
    determination by a magistrate that the wanted person is presently
    within that party's premises. "A warrant for the arrest of a
    suspect may indicate that the police officer has probable cause to
    believe the suspect committed the crime; it affords no basis to
    believe the suspect is in some stranger's home." Fisher v. Volz,
    supra.
      It has sometimes been contended that a search warrant should be
    required for a nonexigent entry to arrest even when the premises to
    be entered are those of the person to be arrested. Rotenberg &
    Tanzer, Searching for the Person to be Seized, 35 Ohio St.L.J. 56,
    69 (1974). Case authority in support is lacking, and it may be that
    the protections of a search warrant are less important in such a
    situation because ordinarily "rudimentary police procedure dictates
    that a suspect's residence be eliminated as a possible hiding place
    before a search is conducted elsewhere." People v. Sprovieri, 95
    Ill.App.2d 10, 238 N.E.2d 115 (1968).
      Despite these uncertainties, the fact remains that in some
    circuits under some circumstances a search warrant is required to
    enter private premises to arrest. Moreover, the law on this subject
    is in a sufficient state of uncertainty that this position may be
    taken by other courts. It is thus important that Rule 41 clearly
    express that a search warrant for this purpose may issue. And even
    if future decisions head the other direction, the need for the
    amendment would still exist. It is clear that law enforcement
    officers "may not constitutionally enter the home of a private
    individual to search for another person, though he be named in a
    valid arrest warrant in their possession, absent probable cause to
    believe that the named suspect is present within at the time."
    Fisher v. Volz, supra. The cautious officer is entitled to a
    procedure whereby he may have this probable cause determination
    made by a neutral and detached magistrate in advance of the entry.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1989 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to Rule 41(e) conforms the rule to the practice in
    most districts and eliminates language that is somewhat confusing.
    The Supreme Court has upheld warrants for the search and seizure of
    property in the possession of persons who are not suspected of
    criminal activity. See, e.g., Zurcher v. Stanford Daily, 436 U.S.
    547 (1978). Before the amendment, Rule 41(e) permitted such persons
    to seek return of their property if they were aggrieved by an
    unlawful search and seizure. But, the rule failed to address the
    harm that may result from the interference with the lawful use of
    property by persons who are not suspected of wrongdoing. Courts
    have recognized that once the government no longer has a need to
    use evidence, it should be returned. See, e.g., United States v.
    Wilson, 540 F.2d 1100 (D.C. Cir. 1976). Prior to the amendment,
    Rule 41(e) did not explicitly recognize a right of a property owner
    to obtain return of lawfully seized property even though the
    government might be able to protect its legitimate law enforcement
    interests in the property despite its return - e.g., by copying
    documents or by conditioning the return on government access to the
    property at a future time. As amended, Rule 41(e) provides that an
    aggrieved person may seek return of property that has been
    unlawfully seized, and a person whose property has been lawfully
    seized may seek return of property when aggrieved by the
    government's continued possession of it.
      No standard is set forth in the rule to govern the determination
    of whether property should be returned to a person aggrieved either
    by an unlawful seizure or by deprivation of the property. The
    fourth amendment protects people from unreasonable seizures as well
    as unreasonable searches, United States v. Place, 462 U.S. 696, 701
    (1983), and reasonableness under all of the circumstances must be
    the test when a person seeks to obtain the return of property. If
    the United States has a need for the property in an investigation
    or prosecution, its retention of the property generally is
    reasonable. But, if the United States' legitimate interests can be
    satisfied even if the property is returned, continued retention of
    the property would become unreasonable.
      The amendment deletes language dating from 1944 stating that
    evidence shall not be admissible at a hearing or at a trial if the
    court grants the motion to return property under Rule 41(e). This
    language has not kept pace with the development of exclusionary
    rule doctrine and is currently only confusing. The Supreme Court
    has now held that evidence seized in violation of the fourth
    amendment, but in good faith pursuant to a warrant, may be used
    even against a person aggrieved by the constitutional violation.
    United States v. Leon, 468 U.S. 897 (1984). The Court has also held
    that illegally seized evidence may be admissible against persons
    who are not personally aggrieved by an illegal search or seizure.
    Rakas v. Illinois, 439 U.S. 128 (1978). Property that is
    inadmissible for one purpose (e.g., as part of the government's
    case-in-chief) may be admissible for another purpose (e.g.,
    impeachment, United States v. Havens, 446 U.S. 620 (1980)). Federal
    courts have relied upon these decisions and permitted the
    government to retain and to use evidence as permitted by the fourth
    amendment.
      Rule 41(e) is not intended to deny the United States the use of
    evidence permitted by the fourth amendment and federal statutes,
    even if the evidence might have been unlawfully seized. See, e.g.,
    United States v. Calandra, 414 U.S. 338, 349 n.6 (1978) ("Rule
    41(e) does not constitute a statutory expansion of the exclusionary
    rule."); United States v. Roberts, 852 F.2d 671 (2nd Cir. 1988)
    (exceptions to exclusionary rule applicable to Rule 41(e)). Thus,
    the exclusionary provision is deleted, and the scope of the
    exclusionary rule is reserved for judicial decisions.
      In opting for a reasonableness approach and in deleting the
    exclusionary language, the Committee rejects the analysis of
    Sovereign News Co. v. United States, 690 F.2d 569 (6th Cir. 1982),
    cert. denied, 464 U.S. 814 (1983), which held that the United
    States must return photocopies of lawfully seized business records
    unless it could demonstrate that the records were "necessary for a
    specific investigation." As long as the government has a law
    enforcement purpose in copying records, there is no reason why it
    should be saddled with a heavy burden of justifying the copying.
    Although some cases have held that the government must return
    copies of records where the originals were illegally seized - See,
    e.g., United States v. Wallace & Tiernan Co., 336 U.S. 793, 801
    (1948); Goodman v. United States, 369 F.2d 166 (9th Cir. 1966) -
    these holdings are questionable in situations in which the
    government is permitted under Supreme Court decisions to use
    illegally seized evidence, and their reasoning does not apply to
    legally seized evidence.
      As amended, Rule 41(e) avoids an all or nothing approach whereby
    the government must either return records and make no copies or
    keep originals notwithstanding the hardship to their owner. The
    amended rule recognizes that reasonable accommodations might
    protect both the law enforcement interests of the United States and
    the property rights of property owners and holders. In many
    instances documents and records that are relevant to ongoing or
    contemplated investigations and prosecutions may be returned to
    their owner as long as the government preserves a copy for future
    use. In some circumstances, however, equitable considerations might
    justify an order requiring the government to return or destroy all
    copies of records that it has seized. See, e.g., Paton v. LaPrade,
    524 F.2d 862, 867-69 (3rd Cir. 1975). The amended rule contemplates
    judicial action that will respect both possessory and law
    enforcement interests.
      The word "judge" is changed to "court" in the second sentence of
    subdivision (e) to clarify that a magistrate may receive evidence
    in the course of making a finding or a proposed finding for
    consideration by the district judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1990 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 41(a). The amendment to Rule 41(a) serves several purposes.
    First, it furthers the constitutional preference for warrants by
    providing a mechanism whereby a warrant may be issued in a district
    for a person or property that is moving into or through a district
    or might move outside the district while the warrant is sought or
    executed. Second, it clarifies the authority of federal magistrates
    to issue search warrants for property that is relevant to criminal
    investigation being conducted in a district and, although located
    outside the United States, that is in a place where the United
    States may lawfully conduct a search.
      The amendment is not intended to expand the class of persons
    authorized to request a warrant and the language "upon request of a
    federal law enforcement officer," modifies all warrants covered by
    Rule 41. The amendment is intended to make clear that judges of
    state courts of record within a federal district may issue search
    warrants for persons or property located within that district. The
    amendment does not prescribe the circumstances in which a warrant
    is required and is not intended to change the law concerning
    warrant requirements. Rather the rule provides a mechanism for the
    issuance of a warrant when one is required, or when a law
    enforcement officer desires to seek a warrant even though
    warrantless activity is permissible.
      Rule 41(a)(1) permits anticipatory warrants by omitting the words
    "is located," which in the past required that in all instances the
    object of the search had to be located within the district at the
    time the warrant was issued. Now a search for property or a person
    within the district, or expected to be within the district, is
    valid if it otherwise complies with the rule.
      Rule 41(a)(2) authorizes execution of search warrants in another
    district under limited circumstances. Because these searches are
    unusual, the rule limits to federal magistrates the authority to
    issue such warrants. The rule permits a federal magistrate to issue
    a search warrant for property within the district which is moving
    or may move outside the district. The amendment recognizes that
    there are inevitable delays between the application for a warrant
    and its authorization, on the one hand, and the execution of the
    warrant, on the other hand. The amendment also recognizes that when
    property is in motion, there may be good reason to delay execution
    until the property comes to rest. The amendment provides a
    practical tool for federal law enforcement officers that avoids the
    necessity of their either seeking several warrants in different
    districts for the same property or their relying on an exception to
    the warrant requirement for search of property or a person that has
    moved outside a district.
      The amendment affords a useful warrant procedure to cover
    familiar fact patterns, like the one typified by United States v.
    Chadwick, 433 U.S. 1 (1976). In Chadwick, agents in San Diego
    observed suspicious activities involving a footlocker carried onto
    a train. When the train arrived in Boston, the agents made an
    arrest and conducted a warrantless search of the footlocker (which
    the Supreme Court held was invalid). Under the amended rule, agents
    who have probable cause in San Diego would be able to obtain a
    warrant for a search of the footlocker even though it is moving
    outside the district. Agents, who will not be sure exactly where
    the footlocker will be unloaded from the train, may execute the
    warrant when the journey ends. See also United States v. Karo, 468
    U.S. 705 (1984) (rejecting argument that obtaining warrant to
    monitor beeper would not comply with requirement of particularity
    because its final destination may not be known); United States v.
    Knotts, 460 U.S. 276 (1983) (agents followed beeper across state
    lines). The Supreme Court's holding in Chadwick permits law
    enforcement officers to seize and hold an object like a footlocker
    while seeking a warrant. Although the amended rule would not
    disturb this holding, it provides a mechanism for agents to seek a
    probable cause determination and a warrant before interfering with
    the property and seizing it. It encourages reliance on warrants.
      The amendment is not intended to abrogate the requirements of
    probable cause and prompt execution. At some point, a warrant
    issued in one district might become stale when executed in another
    district. But staleness can be a problem even when a warrant is
    executed in the district in which it was issued. See generally
    United States v. Harris, 403 U.S. 573, 579, 589 (1971). And at some
    point, an intervening event might make execution of a warrant
    unreasonable. Cf. Illinois v. Andreas, 463 U.S. 765, 772 (1983).
    Evaluations of the execution of a warrant must, in the nature of
    things, be made after the warrant is issued.
      Nor does the amendment abrogate the requirement of particularity.
    Thus, it does not authorize searches of premises other than a
    particular place. As recognized by the Supreme Court in Karo,
    supra, although agents may not know exactly where moving property
    will come to rest, they can still describe with particularity the
    object to be searched.
      The amendment would authorize the search of a particular object
    or container provided that law enforcement officials were otherwise
    in a lawful position to execute the search without making an
    impermissible intrusion. For example, it would authorize the search
    of luggage moving aboard a plane.
      Rule 41(a)(3) [The Supreme Court did not adopt the addition of a
    subsection (3) to Rule 41(a)] provides for warrants to search
    property outside the United States. No provision for search
    warrants for persons is made lest the rule be read as a substitute
    for extradition proceedings. As with the provision for searches
    outside a district, supra, this provision is limited to search
    warrants issued by federal magistrates. The phrase "relevant to
    criminal investigation" is intended to encompass all of the types
    of property that are covered by Rule 41(b), which is unchanged by
    the amendment. That phrase also is intended to include those
    investigations which begin with the request for the search warrant.
      Some searches and seizures by federal officers outside the
    territory of the United States may be governed by the fourth
    amendment. See generally Saltzburg, the Reach of the Bill of Rights
    Beyond the Terra Firma of the United States, 20 Va. J. Int'l L. 741
    (1980). Prior to the amendment of the rule, it was unclear how
    federal officers might obtain warrants authorizing searches outside
    the district of the issuing magistrate. Military Rule of Evidence
    315 provided guidance for searches of military personnel and
    property and nonmilitary property in a foreign country. But it had
    no civilian counterpart. See generally S. Saltzburg, L. Schinasi, &
    D. Schlueter, Military Rules of Evidence Manual 274-95 (2d ed.
    1986).
      Although the amendment rests on the assumption that the
    Constitution applies to some extraterritorial searches, cf United
    States v. Verdugo-Urquidez, 110 S. Ct. 1056, 494 U.S. 259 (1990)
    (fourth amendment inapplicable to extraterritorial searches of
    property owned by nonresident aliens), it does not address the
    question of when the Constitution requires a warrant. Nor does it
    address the issue of whether international agreements or treaties
    or the law of a foreign nation might be applicable. See United
    States v. Patterson, 812 F. 2d 486 (9th Cir. 1987). Instead, the
    amendment is intended to provide necessary clarification as to how
    a warrant may be obtained when law enforcement officials are
    required, or find it desirable, to do so.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to Rule 41(c)(2)(A) is intended to expand the
    authority of magistrates and judges in considering oral requests
    for search warrants. It also recognizes the value of, and the
    public's increased dependence on facsimile machines to transmit
    written information efficiently and accurately. As amended, the
    Rule should thus encourage law enforcement officers to seek a
    warrant, especially when it is necessary, or desirable, to
    supplement oral telephonic communications by written materials
    which may now be transmitted electronically as well. The magistrate
    issuing the warrant may require that the original affidavit be
    ultimately filed. The Committee considered, but rejected,
    amendments to the Rule which would have permitted other means of
    electronic transmission, such as the use of computer modems. In its
    view, facsimile transmissions provide some method of assuring the
    authenticity of the writing transmitted by the affiant.
      The Committee considered amendments to Rule 41(c)(2)(B),
    Application, Rule 41(c)(2)(C), Issuance, and Rule 41(g), Return of
    Papers to Clerk, but determined that allowing use of facsimile
    transmissions in those instances would not save time and would
    present problems and questions concerning the need to preserve
    facsimile copies.
      The Rule is also amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements
    Act of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides
    that each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of
    title 28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 41 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as
    otherwise noted below. Rule 41 has been completely reorganized to
    make it easier to read and apply its key provisions.
      Rule 41(b)(3) is a new provision that incorporates a
    congressional amendment to Rule 41 as a part of the Uniting and
    Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to
    Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001. The
    provision explicitly addresses the authority of a magistrate judge
    to issue a search warrant in an investigation of domestic or
    international terrorism. As long as the magistrate judge has
    authority in a district where activities related to terrorism may
    have occurred, the magistrate judge may issue a warrant for persons
    or property not only within the district, but outside the district
    as well.
      Current Rule 41(c)(1), which refers to the fact that hearsay
    evidence may be used to support probable cause, has been deleted.
    That language was added to the rule in 1972, apparently to reflect
    emerging federal case law. See Advisory Committee Note to 1972
    Amendments to Rule 41 (citing cases). Similar language was added to
    Rule 4 in 1974. In the intervening years, however, the case law has
    become perfectly clear on that proposition. Thus, the Committee
    believed that the reference to hearsay was no longer necessary.
    Furthermore, the limited reference to hearsay evidence was
    misleading to the extent that it might have suggested that other
    forms of inadmissible evidence could not be considered. For
    example, the rule made no reference to considering a defendant's
    prior criminal record, which clearly may be considered in deciding
    whether probable cause exists. See, e.g., Brinegar v. United
    States, 338 U.S. 160 (1949) (officer's knowledge of defendant's
    prior criminal activity). Rather than address that issue, or any
    other similar issues, the Committee believed that the matter was
    best addressed in Rule 1101(d)(3), Federal Rules of Evidence. That
    rule explicitly provides that the Federal Rules of Evidence do not
    apply to "preliminary examinations in criminal cases, . . .
    issuance of warrants for arrest, criminal summonses, and search
    warrants . . . ." The Advisory Committee Note accompanying that
    rule recognizes that: "The nature of the proceedings makes
    application of the formal rules of evidence inappropriate and
    impracticable." The Committee did not intend to make any
    substantive changes in practice by deleting the reference to
    hearsay evidence.
      Current Rule 41(d) provides that the officer taking the property
    under the warrant must provide a receipt for the property and
    complete an inventory. The revised rule indicates that the
    inventory may be completed by an officer present during the
    execution of the warrant, and not necessarily the officer actually
    executing the warrant.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      The amendments to Rule 41 address three issues: first, procedures
    for issuing tracking device warrants; second, a provision for
    delaying any notice required by the rule; and third, a provision
    permitting a magistrate judge to use reliable electronic means to
    issue warrants.
      Subdivision (a). Amended Rule 41(a)(2) includes two new
    definitional provisions. The first, in Rule 41(a)(2)(D), addresses
    the definitions of "domestic terrorism" and "international
    terrorism," terms used in Rule 41(b)(2). The second, in Rule
    41(a)(2)(E), addresses the definition of "tracking device."
      Subdivision (b). Amended Rule 41(b)(4) is a new provision,
    designed to address the use of tracking devices. Such searches are
    recognized both by statute, see 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3117(a) and by
    caselaw, see, e.g., United States v. Karo, 468 U.S. 705 (1984);
    United States v. Knotts, 460 U.S. 276 (1983). Warrants may be
    required to monitor tracking devices when they are used to monitor
    persons or property in areas where there is a reasonable
    expectation of privacy. See, e.g., United States v. Karo, supra
    (although no probable cause was required to install beeper,
    officers' monitoring of its location in defendant's home raised
    Fourth Amendment concerns). Nonetheless, there is no procedural
    guidance in current Rule 41 for those judicial officers who are
    asked to issue tracking device warrants. As with traditional search
    warrants for persons or property, tracking device warrants may
    implicate law enforcement interests in multiple districts.
      The amendment provides that a magistrate judge may issue a
    warrant, if he or she has the authority to do so in the district,
    to install and use a tracking device, as that term is defined in 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3117(b). The magistrate judge's authority under this
    rule includes the authority to permit entry into an area where
    there is a reasonable expectation of privacy, installation of the
    tracking device, and maintenance and removal of the device. The
    Committee did not intend by this amendment to expand or contract
    the definition of what might constitute a tracking device. The
    amendment is based on the understanding that the device will assist
    officers only in tracking the movements of a person or property.
    The warrant may authorize officers to track the person or property
    within the district of issuance, or outside the district.
      Because the authorized tracking may involve more than one
    district or state, the Committee believes that only federal
    judicial officers should be authorized to issue this type of
    warrant. Even where officers have no reason to believe initially
    that a person or property will move outside the district of
    issuance, issuing a warrant to authorize tracking both inside and
    outside the district avoids the necessity of obtaining multiple
    warrants if the property or person later crosses district or state
    lines.
      The amendment reflects the view that if the officers intend to
    install or use the device in a constitutionally protected area,
    they must obtain judicial approval to do so. If, on the other hand,
    the officers intend to install and use the device without
    implicating any Fourth Amendment rights, there is no need to obtain
    the warrant. See, e.g., United States v. Knotts, supra, where the
    officers' actions in installing and following tracking device did
    not amount to a search under the Fourth Amendment.
      Subdivision (d). Amended Rule 41(d) includes new language on
    tracking devices. The tracking device statute, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3117,
    does not specify the standard an applicant must meet to install a
    tracking device. The Supreme Court has acknowledged that the
    standard for installation of a tracking device is unresolved, and
    has reserved ruling on the issue until it is squarely presented by
    the facts of a case. See United States v. Karo, 468 U.S. 705, 718
    n. 5 (1984). The amendment to Rule 41 does not resolve this issue
    or hold that such warrants may issue only on a showing of probable
    cause. Instead, it simply provides that if probable cause is shown,
    the magistrate judge must issue the warrant. And the warrant is
    only needed if the device is installed (for example, in the trunk
    of the defendant's car) or monitored (for example, while the car is
    in the defendant's garage) in an area in which the person being
    monitored has a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      Subdivision (e). Rule 41(e) has been amended to permit magistrate
    judges to use reliable electronic means to issue warrants.
    Currently, the rule makes no provision for using such media. The
    amendment parallels similar changes to Rules 5 and
    32.1(a)(5)(B)(i).
      The amendment recognizes the significant improvements in
    technology. First, more counsel, courts, and magistrate judges now
    routinely use facsimile transmissions of documents. And many courts
    and magistrate judges are now equipped to receive filings by
    electronic means. Indeed, some courts encourage or require that
    certain documents be filed by electronic means. Second, the
    technology has advanced to the state where such filings may be sent
    from, and received at, locations outside the courthouse. Third,
    electronic media can now provide improved quality of transmission
    and security measures. In short, in a particular case, using
    facsimiles and electronic media to transmit a warrant can be both
    reliable and efficient use of judicial resources.
      The term "electronic" is used to provide some flexibility to the
    rule and make allowance for further technological advances in
    transmitting data. Although facsimile transmissions are not
    specifically identified, the Committee envisions that facsimile
    transmissions would fall within the meaning of "electronic means."
      While the rule does not impose any special requirements on use of
    facsimile transmissions, neither does it presume that those
    transmissions are reliable. The rule treats all electronic
    transmissions in a similar fashion. Whatever the mode, the means
    used must be "reliable." While the rule does not further define
    that term, the Committee envisions that a court or magistrate judge
    would make that determination as a local matter. In deciding
    whether a particular electronic means, or media, would be reliable,
    the court might consider first, the expected quality and clarity of
    the transmission. For example, is it possible to read the contents
    of the warrant in its entirety, as though it were the original or a
    clean photocopy? Second, the court may consider whether security
    measures are available to insure that the transmission is not
    compromised. In this regard, most courts are now equipped to
    require that certain documents contain a digital signature, or some
    other similar system for restricting access. Third, the court may
    consider whether there are reliable means of preserving the
    document for later use.
      Amended Rule 41(e)(2)(B) is a new provision intended to address
    the contents of tracking device warrants. To avoid open-ended
    monitoring of tracking devices, the revised rule requires the
    magistrate judge to specify in the warrant the length of time for
    using the device. Although the initial time stated in the warrant
    may not exceed 45 days, extensions of time may be granted for good
    cause. The rule further specifies that any installation of a
    tracking device authorized by the warrant must be made within ten
    calendar days and, unless otherwise provided, that any installation
    occur during daylight hours.
      Subdivision (f). Current Rule 41(f) has been completely revised
    to accommodate new provisions dealing with tracking device
    warrants. First, current Rule 41(f)(1) has been revised to address
    execution and delivery of warrants to search for and seize a person
    or property; no substantive change has been made to that provision.
    New Rule 41(f)(2) addresses execution and delivery of tracking
    device warrants. That provision generally tracks the structure of
    revised Rule 41(f)(1), with appropriate adjustments for the
    particular requirements of tracking device warrants. Under Rule
    41(f)(2)(A) the officer must note on the warrant the time the
    device was installed and the period during which the device was
    used. And under new Rule 41(f)(2)(B), the officer must return the
    tracking device warrant to the magistrate judge designated in the
    warrant, within 10 calendar days after use of the device has ended.
      Amended Rule 41(f)(2)(C) addresses the particular problems of
    serving a copy of a tracking device warrant on the person who has
    been tracked, or whose property has been tracked. In the case of
    other warrants, current Rule 41 envisions that the subjects of the
    search typically know that they have been searched, usually within
    a short period of time after the search has taken place. Tracking
    device warrants, on the other hand, are by their nature covert
    intrusions and can be successfully used only when the person being
    investigated is unaware that a tracking device is being used. The
    amendment requires that the officer must serve a copy of the
    tracking device warrant on the person within 10 calendar days after
    the tracking has ended. That service may be accomplished by either
    personally serving the person, or both by leaving a copy at the
    person's residence or usual abode and by sending a copy by mail.
    The Rule also provides, however, that the officer may (for good
    cause) obtain the court's permission to delay further service of
    the warrant. That might be appropriate, for example, where the
    owner of the tracked property is undetermined, or where the officer
    establishes that the investigation is ongoing and that disclosure
    of the warrant will compromise that investigation.
      Use of a tracking device is to be distinguished from other
    continuous monitoring or observations that are governed by
    statutory provisions or caselaw. See Title III, Omnibus Crime
    Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as amended by Title I of the
    1986 Electronic Communications Privacy Act [Electronic
    Communications Privacy Act of 1986], 18 U.S.C. Secs. 2510-2520
    [sic]; United States v. Biasucci, 786 F.2d 504 (2d Cir. 1986)
    (video camera); United States v. Torres, 751 F.2d 875 (7th Cir.
    1984) (television surveillance).
      Finally, amended Rule 41(f)(3) is a new provision that permits
    the government to request, and the magistrate judge to grant, a
    delay in any notice required in Rule 41. The amendment is co-
    extensive with 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3103a(b). That new provision, added
    as part of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing
    Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA
    PATRIOT) Act of 2001, authorizes a court to delay any notice
    required in conjunction with the issuance of any search warrants.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee agreed
    with the NADCL [sic] proposal that the words "has authority" should
    be inserted in Rule 41(c)(3), and (4) to parallel similar language
    in Rule 41(c)(1) and (2). The Committee also considered, but
    rejected, a proposal from NADCL [sic] to completely redraft Rule
    41(d), regarding the finding of probable cause. The Committee also
    made minor clarifying changes in the Committee Note.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b)(5). Rule 41(b)(5) authorizes a magistrate judge
    to issue a search warrant for property located within certain
    delineated parts of United States jurisdiction that are outside of
    any State or any federal judicial district. The locations covered
    by the rule include United States territories, possessions, and
    commonwealths not within a federal judicial district as well as
    certain premises associated with United States diplomatic and
    consular missions. These are locations in which the United States
    has a legally cognizable interest or in which it exerts lawful
    authority and control. The rule is intended to authorize a
    magistrate judge to issue a search warrant in any of the locations
    for which 18 U.S.C. Sec. 7(9) provides jurisdiction. The difference
    between the language in this rule and the statute reflect the style
    conventions used in these rules, rather than any intention to alter
    the scope of the legal authority conferred. Under the rule, a
    warrant may be issued by a magistrate judge in any district in
    which activities related to the crime under investigation may have
    occurred, or in the District of Columbia, which serves as the
    default district for venue under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3238.
      Rule 41(b)(5) provides the authority to issue warrants for the
    seizure of property in the designated locations when law
    enforcement officials are required or find it desirable to obtain
    such warrants. The Committee takes no position on the question
    whether the Constitution requires a warrant for searches covered by
    the rule, or whether any international agreements, treaties, or
    laws of a foreign nation might be applicable. The rule does not
    address warrants for persons, which could be viewed as inconsistent
    with extradition requirements.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    With the assistance of the Style Consultant, the Committee revised
    (b)(5)(B) and (C) for greater clarity and compliance with the style
    conventions governing these rules. Because the language no longer
    tracks precisely the statute, the Committee Note was revised to
    state that the proposed rule is intended to have the same scope as
    the jurisdictional provision upon which it was based, 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 7(9).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The time set in the former rule at 10 days has been revised to 14
    days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).
      Subdivision (e)(2). Computers and other electronic storage media
    commonly contain such large amounts of information that it is often
    impractical for law enforcement to review all of the information
    during execution of the warrant at the search location. This rule
    acknowledges the need for a two-step process: officers may seize or
    copy the entire storage medium and review it later to determine
    what electronically stored information falls within the scope of
    the warrant.
      The term "electronically stored information" is drawn from Rule
    34(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which states that it
    includes "writings, drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, sound
    recordings, images, and other data or data compilations stored in
    any medium from which information can be obtained." The 2006
    Committee Note to Rule 34(a) explains that the description is
    intended to cover all current types of computer-based information
    and to encompass future changes and developments. The same broad
    and flexible description is intended under Rule 41.
      In addition to addressing the two-step process inherent in
    searches for electronically stored information, the Rule limits the
    10 [14] day execution period to the actual execution of the warrant
    and the on-site activity. While consideration was given to a
    presumptive national or uniform time period within which any
    subsequent off-site copying or review of the media or
    electronically stored information would take place, the practical
    reality is that there is no basis for a "one size fits all"
    presumptive period. A substantial amount of time can be involved in
    the forensic imaging and review of information. This is due to the
    sheer size of the storage capacity of media, difficulties created
    by encryption and booby traps, and the workload of the computer
    labs. The rule does not prevent a judge from imposing a deadline
    for the return of the storage media or access to the electronically
    stored information at the time the warrant is issued. However, to
    arbitrarily set a presumptive time period for the return could
    result in frequent petitions to the court for additional time.
      It was not the intent of the amendment to leave the property
    owner without an expectation of the timing for return of the
    property, excluding contraband or instrumentalities of crime, or a
    remedy. Current Rule 41(g) already provides a process for the
    "person aggrieved" to seek an order from the court for a return of
    the property, including storage media or electronically stored
    information, under reasonable circumstances.
      Where the "person aggrieved" requires access to the storage media
    or the electronically stored information earlier than anticipated
    by law enforcement or ordered by the court, the court on a case by
    case basis can fashion an appropriate remedy, taking into account
    the time needed to image and search the data and any prejudice to
    the aggrieved party.
      The amended rule does not address the specificity of description
    that the Fourth Amendment may require in a warrant for
    electronically stored information, leaving the application of this
    and other constitutional standards concerning both the seizure and
    the search to ongoing case law development.
      Subdivision (f)(1). Current Rule 41(f)(1) does not address the
    question of whether the inventory should include a description of
    the electronically stored information contained in the media
    seized. Where it is impractical to record a description of the
    electronically stored information at the scene, the inventory may
    list the physical storage media seized. Recording a description of
    the electronically stored information at the scene is likely to be
    the exception, and not the rule, given the large amounts of
    information contained on electronic storage media and the
    impracticality for law enforcement to image and review all of the
    information during the execution of the warrant. This is consistent
    with practice in the "paper world." In circumstances where filing
    cabinets of documents are seized, routine practice is to list the
    storage devices, i.e., the cabinets, on the inventory, as opposed
    to making a document by document list of the contents.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The words "copying or" were added to the last line of Rule
    41(e)(2)(B) to clarify that copying as well as review may take
    place off-site.
      The Committee Note was amended to reflect the change to the text
    and to clarify that the amended Rule does not speak to
    constitutional questions concerning warrants for electronic
    information. Issues of particularity and search protocol are
    presently working their way through the courts. Compare United
    States v. Carey, 172 F.3d 1268 (10th Cir. 1999) (finding warrant
    authorizing search for "documentary evidence pertaining to the sale
    and distribution of controlled substances" to prohibit opening of
    files with a .jpg suffix) and United States v. Fleet Management
    Ltd., 521 F. Supp. 2d 436 (E.D. Pa. 2007) (warrant invalid when it
    "did not even attempt to differentiate between data that there was
    probable cause to seize and data that was completely unrelated to
    any relevant criminal activity") with United States v.
    Comprehensive Drug Testing, Inc., 513 F.3d 1085 (9th Cir. 2008)
    (the government had no reason to confine its search to key words;
    "computer files are easy to disguise or rename, and were we to
    limit the warrant to such a specific search protocol, much evidence
    could escape discovery simply because of [the defendants'] labeling
    of the files"); United States v. Brooks, 427 F.3d 1246 (10th Cir.
    2005) (rejecting requirement that warrant describe specific search
    methodology).
      Minor changes were also made to conform to style conventions.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivisions (d)(3) and (e)(3). The amendment deletes the
    provisions that govern the application for and issuance of warrants
    by telephone or other reliable electronic means. These provisions
    have been transferred to new Rule 4.1, which governs complaints and
    warrants under Rules 3, 4, 9, and 41.
      Subdivision (e)(2). The amendment eliminates unnecessary
    references to "calendar" days. As amended effective December 1,
    2009, Rule 45(a)(1) provides that all periods of time stated in
    days include "every day, including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays,
    and legal holidays[.]"
      Subdivisions (f)(1) and (2). The amendment permits any warrant
    return to be made by reliable electronic means. Requiring an in-
    person return can be burdensome on law enforcement, particularly
    in large districts when the return can require a great deal of time
    and travel. In contrast, no interest of the accused is affected by
    allowing what is normally a ministerial act to be done
    electronically. Additionally, in subdivision (f)(2) the amendment
    eliminates unnecessary references to "calendar" days. As amended
    effective December 1, 2009, Rule 45(a)(1) provides that all periods
    of time stated in days include "every day, including intermediate
    Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays[.]"
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    Obsolescent references to "calendar" days were deleted by a
    technical and conforming amendment not included in the rule as
    published. No other changes were made after publication.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      2001 - Subd. (a). Pub. L. 107-56 inserted before period at end
    "and (3) in an investigation of domestic terrorism or international
    terrorism (as defined in section 2331 of title 18, United States
    Code), by a Federal magistrate judge in any district in which
    activities related to the terrorism may have occurred, for a search
    of property or for a person within or outside the district".

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1977 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by order of the United States Supreme
    Court on Apr. 26, 1976, modified and approved by Pub. L. 95-78,
    effective Oct. 1, 1977, see section 4 of Pub. L. 95-78, set out as
    an Effective Date of Pub. L. 95-78 note under section 2074 of Title
    28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1976 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of subd. (c)(1) by order of the United States Supreme
    Court of Apr. 26, 1976, effective Aug. 1, 1976, see section 1 of
    Pub. L. 94-349, set out as a note under section 2074 of Title 28,
    Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1956 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Order of April 9, 1956, became effective 90 days
    thereafter.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 42                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE VIII. SUPPLEMENTARY AND SPECIAL PROCEEDINGS

-HEAD-
    Rule 42. Criminal Contempt

-STATUTE-
      (a) Disposition After Notice. Any person who commits criminal
    contempt may be punished for that contempt after prosecution on
    notice.
        (1) Notice. The court must give the person notice in open
      court, in an order to show cause, or in an arrest order. The
      notice must:
          (A) state the time and place of the trial;
          (B) allow the defendant a reasonable time to prepare a
        defense; and
          (C) state the essential facts constituting the charged
        criminal contempt and describe it as such.

        (2) Appointing a Prosecutor. The court must request that the
      contempt be prosecuted by an attorney for the government, unless
      the interest of justice requires the appointment of another
      attorney. If the government declines the request, the court must
      appoint another attorney to prosecute the contempt.
        (3) Trial and Disposition. A person being prosecuted for
      criminal contempt is entitled to a jury trial in any case in
      which federal law so provides and must be released or detained as
      Rule 46 provides. If the criminal contempt involves disrespect
      toward or criticism of a judge, that judge is disqualified from
      presiding at the contempt trial or hearing unless the defendant
      consents. Upon a finding or verdict of guilty, the court must
      impose the punishment.

      (b) Summary Disposition. Notwithstanding any other provision of
    these rules, the court (other than a magistrate judge) may
    summarily punish a person who commits criminal contempt in its
    presence if the judge saw or heard the contemptuous conduct and so
    certifies; a magistrate judge may summarily punish a person as
    provided in 28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(e). The contempt order must recite
    the facts, be signed by the judge, and be filed with the clerk.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The rule-making power of the Supreme Court with respect to
    criminal proceedings was extended to proceedings to punish for
    criminal contempt of court by the Act of November 21, 1941 (55
    Stat. 779), 18 U.S.C. 689.
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing law, Ex parte Terry, 128 U.S. 289; Cooke v. United
    States, 267 U.S. 517, 534.
      Note to Subdivision (b). 1. This rule is substantially a
    restatement of the procedure prescribed in 28 U.S.C. 386-390 [now
    18 U.S.C. 401, 402, 3285, 3691], and 29 U.S.C. 111 [now 18 U.S.C.
    3692].
      2. The requirement in the second sentence that the notice shall
    describe the criminal contempt as such is intended to obviate the
    frequent confusion between criminal and civil contempt proceedings
    and follows the suggestion made in McCann v. New York Stock
    Exchange, 80 F.2d 211 (C.C.A. 2d). See also Nye v. United States,
    313 U.S. 33, 42-43.
      3. The fourth sentence relating to trial by jury preserves the
    right to a trial by jury in those contempt cases in which it is
    granted by statute, but does not enlarge the right or extend it to
    additional cases. The respondent in a contempt proceeding may
    demand a trial by jury as of right if the proceeding is brought
    under the Act of March 23, 1932, c. 90, sec. 11, 47 Stat. 72, 29
    U.S.C. 111 [now 18 U.S.C. 3692] (Norris-La Guardia Act), or the Act
    of October 15, 1914, c. 323, sec. 22, 38 Stat. 738, 28 U.S.C. 387
    (Clayton Act).
      4. The provision in the sixth sentence disqualifying the judge
    affected by the contempt if the charge involves disrespect to or
    criticism of him, is based, in part, on 29 U.S.C. former Sec. 112
    (Contempts; demand for retirement of judge sitting in proceeding)
    and the observations of Chief Justice Taft in Cooke v. United
    States, 267 U.S. 517, 539, 45 S.Ct. 390, 69 L.Ed. 767.
      5. Among the statutory provisions defining criminal contempts are
    the following:

    U.S.C., Title 7:

     Section 499m (Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act;
          investigation of complaints; procedure; penalties; etc. - (c)
          Disobedience to subpenas; remedy; contempt)

    U.S.C., Title 9:

     Section 7 (Witnesses before arbitrators; fees, compelling
          attendance)

    U.S.C., Title 11:

     Section 69 [former] (Referees; contempts before)

    U.S.C., Title 15:

     Section 49 (Federal Trade Commission; documentary evidence;
          depositions; witnesses)
     Section 78u (Regulation of Securities Exchanges; investigation;
          injunctions and prosecution of offenses)
     Section 100 (Trademarks; destruction of infringing labels; service
          of injunction, and proceedings for enforcement)
     Section 155 (China Trade Act; authority of registrar in obtaining
          evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 17:

     Section 36 [now 502] (Injunctions; service and enforcement)

    U.S.C., Title 19:

     Section 1333 (Tariff Commission; testimony and production of
          papers - (b) Witnesses and evidence)

    U.S.C., Title 22:

     Section 270f (International Bureaus; Congresses, etc.; perjury;
          contempts; penalties)

    U.S.C., Title 28:

     Section 385 [now 459; 18 U.S.C. 401] (Administration of oaths;
          contempts)
     Section 386 [now 18 U.S.C. 402, 3691] (Contempts; when
          constituting also criminal offense)
     Section 387 [now 18 U.S.C. 402] (Same; procedure; bail;
          attachment; trial; punishment) (Clayton Act; jury trial;
          section)
     Section 388 [former] (Same; review of conviction)
     Section 389 [now 18 U.S.C. 402, 3691] (Same; not specifically
          enumerated)
     Section 390 [now 18 U.S.C. 3285] (Same; limitations)
     Section 390a [now 18 U.S.C. 402] ("Person" or "persons" defined)
     Section 648 [now Rule 17(f), FRCP, 18 U.S.C., Appendix; Rule
          45(d), FRCP, 28 U.S.C., Appendix] (Depositions under dedimus
          potestatem; witnesses; when required to attend)
     Section 703 [former] (Punishment of witness for contempt)
     Section 714 [now 1784] (Failure of witness to obey subpena; order
          to show cause in contempt proceedings)
     Section 715 [now 1784] (Direction in order to show cause for
          seizure of property of witness in contempt)
     Section 716 [now 1784] (Service of order to show cause)
     Section 717 [now 1784] (Hearing on order to show cause; judgment;
          satisfaction)
     Section 750 [now 2405] (Garnishees in suits by United States
          against a corporation; garnishee failing to appear)

    U.S.C., Title 29:

     Section 111 [now 18 U.S.C. 3692] (Contempts; speedy and public
          trial; jury) (Norris-La Guardia Act)
     Section 112 [now Rule 42, FRCP, 18 U.S.C., Appendix] (Contempts;
          demands for retirement of judge sitting in proceeding)
     Section 160 (Prevention of unfair labor practices - (h)
          Jurisdiction of courts unaffected by limitations prescribed
          in sections 101-115 of Title 29)
     Section 161 (Investigatory powers of Board - (2) Court aid in
          compelling production of evidence and attendance of
          witnesses)
     Section 209 (Fair Labor Standards Act; attendance of witnesses)

    U.S.C., Title 33:

     Section 927 (Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act;
          powers of deputy commissioner)

    U.S.C., Title 35:

     Section 56 [now 24] (Failing to attend or testify)

    U.S.C., Title 47:

     Section 409 (Federal Communications Commission; hearing; subpenas;
          oaths; witnesses; production of books and papers; contempts;
          depositions; penalties)

    U.S.C., Title 48:

     Section 1345a (Canal Zone; general jurisdiction of district court;
          issue of process at request of officials; witnesses;
          contempt)

    U.S.C., Title 49:

     Section 12 [see 721(c)(2), 13301(c)(2)] (Interstate Commerce
          Commission; authority and duties of commission; witnesses;
          depositions - (3) Compelling attendance and testimony of
          witnesses, etc.)

    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure:

     Rule 45 (Subpoena) subdivision (f) (Contempt)

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 42 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The revised rule is intended to more clearly set out the
    procedures for conducting a criminal contempt proceeding. The
    current rule implicitly recognizes that an attorney for the
    government may be involved in the prosecution of such cases.
    Revised Rule 42(a)(2) now explicitly addresses the appointment of a
    "prosecutor" and adopts language to reflect the holding in Young v.
    United States ex rel. Vuitton, 481 U.S. 787 (1987). In that case
    the Supreme Court indicated that ordinarily the court should
    request that an attorney for the government prosecute the contempt;
    only if that request is denied, should the court appoint a private
    prosecutor. The rule envisions that a disinterested counsel should
    be appointed to prosecute the contempt.
      Rule 42(b) has been amended to make it clear that a court may
    summarily punish a person for committing contempt in the court's
    presence without regard to whether other rules, such as Rule 32
    (sentencing procedures), might otherwise apply. See, e.g., United
    States v. Martin-Trigona, 759 F.2d 1017 (2d Cir. 1985). Further,
    Rule 42(b) has been amended to recognize the contempt powers of a
    court (other than a magistrate judge) and a magistrate judge.

-End-


-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS                01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
                       TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS                   

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 43                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 43. Defendant's Presence

-STATUTE-
      (a) When Required. Unless this rule, Rule 5, or Rule 10 provides
    otherwise, the defendant must be present at:
        (1) the initial appearance, the initial arraignment, and the
      plea;
        (2) every trial stage, including jury impanelment and the
      return of the verdict; and
        (3) sentencing.

      (b) When Not Required. A defendant need not be present under any
    of the following circumstances:
        (1) Organizational Defendant. The defendant is an organization
      represented by counsel who is present.
        (2) Misdemeanor Offense. The offense is punishable by fine or
      by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both, and with the
      defendant's written consent, the court permits arraignment, plea,
      trial, and sentencing to occur by video teleconferencing or in
      the defendant's absence.
        (3) Conference or Hearing on a Legal Question. The proceeding
      involves only a conference or hearing on a question of law.
        (4) Sentence Correction. The proceeding involves the correction
      or reduction of sentence under Rule 35 or 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3582(c).

      (c) Waiving Continued Presence.
        (1) In General. A defendant who was initially present at trial,
      or who had pleaded guilty or nolo contendere, waives the right to
      be present under the following circumstances:
          (A) when the defendant is voluntarily absent after the trial
        has begun, regardless of whether the court informed the
        defendant of an obligation to remain during trial;
          (B) in a noncapital case, when the defendant is voluntarily
        absent during sentencing; or
          (C) when the court warns the defendant that it will remove
        the defendant from the courtroom for disruptive behavior, but
        the defendant persists in conduct that justifies removal from
        the courtroom.

        (2) Waiver's Effect. If the defendant waives the right to be
      present, the trial may proceed to completion, including the
      verdict's return and sentencing, during the defendant's absence.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 22, 1974, eff. Dec. 1, 1975; Pub. L. 94-64, Sec.
    3(35), July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 376; Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1,
    1987; Apr. 27, 1995, eff. Dec. 1, 1995; Apr. 24, 1998, eff. Dec. 1,
    1998; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 26, 2011, eff. Dec. 1,
    2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. The first sentence of the rule setting forth the necessity of
    the defendant's presence at arraignment and trial is a restatement
    of existing law, Lewis v. United States, 146 U.S. 370; Diaz v.
    United States, 223 U.S. 442, 455. This principle does not apply to
    hearings on motions made prior to or after trial, United States v.
    Lynch, 132 F.2d 111 (C.C.A. 3d).
      2. The second sentence of the rule is a restatement of existing
    law that, except in capital cases, the defendant may not defeat the
    proceedings by voluntarily absenting himself after the trial has
    been commenced in his presence, Diaz v. United States, 223 U.S.
    442, 455; United States v. Noble, 294 F. 689 (D.Mont.) - affirmed,
    300 F. 689 (C.C.A. 9th); United States v. Barracota, 45 F.Supp. 38
    (S.D.N.Y.); United States v. Vassalo, 52 F.2d 699 (E.D.Mich.).
      3. The fourth sentence of the rule empowering the court in its
    discretion, with the defendant's written consent, to conduct
    proceedings in misdemeanor cases in defendant's absence adopts a
    practice prevailing in some districts comprising very large areas.
    In such districts appearance in court may require considerable
    travel, resulting in expense and hardship not commensurate with the
    gravity of the charge, if a minor infraction is involved and a
    small fine is eventually imposed. The rule, which is in the
    interest of defendants in such situations, leaves it discretionary
    with the court to permit defendants in misdemeanor cases to absent
    themselves and, if so, to determine in what types of misdemeanors
    and to what extent. Similar provisions are found in the statutes of
    a number of States. See A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure, pp. 881-
    882.
      4. The purpose of the last sentence of the rule is to resolve a
    doubt that at times has arisen as to whether it is necessary to
    bring the defendant to court from an institution in which he is
    confined, possibly at a distant point, if the court determines to
    reduce the sentence previously imposed. It seems in the interest of
    both the Government and the defendant not to require such presence,
    because of the delay and expense that are involved.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      The revision of rule 43 is designed to reflect Illinois v. Allen,
    397 U.S. 337, 90 S.Ct. 1057, 25 L.Ed. 2d 353 (1970). In Allen, the
    court held that "there are at least three constitutionally
    permissible ways for a trial judge to handle an obstreperous
    defendant like Allen: (1) bind and gag him, thereby keeping him
    present; (2) cite him for contempt; (3) take him out of the
    courtroom until he promises to conduct himself properly." 397 U.S.
    at 343-344, 90 S.Ct. 1057.
      Since rule 43 formerly limited trial in absentia to situations in
    which there is a "voluntary absence after the trial has been
    commenced," it could be read as precluding a federal judge from
    exercising the third option held to be constitutionally permissible
    in Allen. The amendment is designed to make clear that the judge
    does have the power to exclude the defendant from the courtroom
    when the circumstances warrant such action.
      The decision in Allen, makes no attempt to spell out standards to
    guide a judge in selecting the appropriate method to ensure decorum
    in the courtroom and there is no attempt to do so in the revision
    of the rule.
      The concurring opinion of Mr. Justice Brennan stresses that the
    trial judge should make a reasonable effort to enable an excluded
    defendant "to communicate with his attorney and, if possible, to
    keep apprised of the progress of the trial." 397 U.S. at 351, 90
    S.Ct. 1057. The Federal Judicial Center is presently engaged in
    experimenting with closed circuit television in courtrooms. The
    experience gained from these experiments may make closed circuit
    television readily available in federal courtrooms through which an
    excluded defendant would be able to hear and observe the trial.
      The defendant's right to be present during the trial on a capital
    offense has been said to be so fundamental that it may not be
    waived. Diaz v. United States, 223 U.S. 442, 455, 32 S.Ct. 250, 56
    L.Ed. 500 (1912) (dictum); Near v. Cunningham, 313 F.2d 929, 931
    (4th Cir. 1963); C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure:
    Criminal Sec. 723 at 199 (1969, Supp.1971).
      However, in Illinois v. Allen, supra the court's opinion suggests
    that sanctions such as contempt may be least effective where the
    defendant is ultimately facing a far more serious sanction such as
    the death penalty. 397 U.S. at 345, 90 S.Ct. 1057. The ultimate
    determination of when a defendant can waive his right to be present
    in a capital case (assuming a death penalty provision is held
    constitutional, see Furman v. Georgia, 408 U.S. 238, 92 S.Ct. 2726,
    33 L.Ed.2d 346 (1972)) is left for further clarification by the
    courts.
      Subdivision (b)(1) makes clear that voluntary absence may
    constitute a waiver even if the defendant has not been informed by
    the court of his obligation to remain during the trial. Of course,
    proof of voluntary absence will require a showing that the
    defendant knew of the fact that the trial or other proceeding was
    going on. C. Wright, Federal Practice and Procedure: Criminal Sec.
    723 n. 35 (1969). But it is unnecessary to show that he was
    specifically warned of his obligation to be present; a warning
    seldom is thought necessary in current practice. [See Taylor v.
    United States, 414 U.S. 17, 94 S.Ct. 194, 38 L.Ed.2d 174 (1973).]
      Subdivision (c)(3) makes clear that the defendant need not be
    present at a conference held by the court and counsel where the
    subject of the conference is an issue of law.
      The other changes in the rule are editorial in nature. In the
    last phrase of the first sentence, "these rules" is changed to read
    "this rule," because there are no references in any of the other
    rules to situations where the defendant is not required to be
    present. The phrase "at the time of the plea," is added to
    subdivision (a) to make perfectly clear that defendant must be
    present at the time of the plea. See rule 11(c)(5) which provides
    that the judge may set a time, other than arraignment, for the
    holding of a plea agreement procedure.

    NOTES OF COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE REPORT NO. 94-247; 1975
                                 AMENDMENT
      A. Amendments Proposed by the Supreme Court. Rule 43 of the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure deals with the presence of the
    defendant during the proceedings against him. It presently permits
    a defendant to be tried in absentia only in non-capital cases where
    the defendant has voluntarily absented himself after the trial has
    begun.
      The Supreme Court amendments provide that a defendant has waived
    his right to be present at the trial of a capital or noncapital
    case in two circumstances: (1) when he voluntarily absents himself
    after the trial has begun; and (2) where he "engages in conduct
    which is such as to justify his being excluded from the courtroom."
      B. Committee Action. The Committee added language to subdivision
    (b)(2), which deals with excluding a disruptive defendant from the
    courtroom. The Advisory Committee Note indicates that the rule
    proposed by the Supreme Court was drafted to reflect the decision
    in Illinois v. Allen, 397 U.S. 337 (1970). The Committee found that
    subdivision (b)(2) as proposed did not full track the Allen
    decision. Consequently, language was added to that subsection to
    require the court to warn a disruptive defendant before excluding
    him from the courtroom.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1995 AMENDMENT       
      The revisions to Rule 43 focus on two areas. First, the
    amendments make clear that a defendant who, initially present at
    trial or who has entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, but
    who voluntarily flees before sentencing, may nonetheless be
    sentenced in absentia. Second, the rule is amended to extend to
    organizational defendants. In addition, some stylistic changes have
    been made.
      Subdivision (a). The changes to subdivision (a) are stylistic in
    nature and the Committee intends no substantive change in the
    operation of that provision.
      Subdivision (b). The changes in subdivision (b) are intended to
    remedy the situation where a defendant voluntarily flees before
    sentence is imposed. Without the amendment, it is doubtful that a
    court could sentence a defendant who had been present during the
    entire trial but flees before sentencing. Delay in conducting the
    sentencing hearing under such circumstances may result in
    difficulty later in gathering and presenting the evidence necessary
    to formulate a guideline sentence.
      The right to be present at court, although important, is not
    absolute. The caselaw, and practice in many jurisdictions, supports
    the proposition that the right to be present at trial may be waived
    through, inter alia, the act of fleeing. See generally Crosby v.
    United States, 113 S.Ct. 748, 506 U.S. 255 (1993). The amendment
    extends only to noncapital cases and applies only where the
    defendant is voluntarily absent after the trial has commenced or
    where the defendant has entered a plea of guilty or nolo
    contendere. The Committee envisions that defense counsel will
    continue to represent the interests of the defendant at sentencing.
      The words "at trial, or having pleaded guilty or nolo contendere"
    have been added at the end of the first sentence to make clear that
    the trial of an absent defendant is possible only if the defendant
    was previously present at the trial or has entered a plea of guilty
    or nolo contendere. See Crosby v. United States, supra.
      Subdivision (c). The change to subdivision (c) is technical in
    nature and replaces the word "corporation" with a reference to
    "organization," as that term is defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 18 to
    include entities other than corporations.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 1998 AMENDMENT             
      The amendment to Rule 43(c)(4) is intended to address two issues.
    First, the rule is rewritten to clarify whether a defendant is
    entitled to be present at resentencing proceedings conducted under
    Rule 35. As a result of amendments over the last several years to
    Rule 35, implementation of the Sentencing Reform Act, and caselaw
    interpretations of Rules 35 and 43, questions had been raised
    whether the defendant had to be present at those proceedings. Under
    the present version of the rule, it could be possible to require
    the defendant's presence at a "reduction" of sentence hearing
    conducted under Rule 35(b), but not a "correction" of sentence
    hearing conducted under Rule 35(a). That potential result seemed at
    odds with sound practice. As amended, Rule 43(c)(4) would permit a
    court to reduce or correct a sentence under Rule 35(b) or (c),
    respectively, without the defendant being present. But a sentencing
    proceeding being conducted on remand by an appellate court under
    Rule 35(a) would continue to require the defendant's presence. See,
    e.g., United States v. Moree, 928 F.2d 654, 655-656 (5th Cir. 1991)
    (noting distinction between presence of defendant at modification
    of sentencing proceedings and those hearings that impose new
    sentence after original sentence has been set aside).
      The second issue addressed by the amendment is the applicability
    of Rule 43 to resentencing hearings conducted under 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3582(c). Under that provision, a resentencing may be conducted as a
    result of retroactive changes to the Sentencing Guidelines by the
    United States Sentencing Commission or as a result of a motion by
    the Bureau of Prisons to reduce a sentence based on "extraordinary
    and compelling reasons." The amendment provides that a defendant's
    presence is not required at such proceedings. In the Committee's
    view, those proceedings are analogous to Rule 35(b) as it read
    before the Sentencing Reform Act of 1984, where the defendant's
    presence was not required. Further, the court may only reduce the
    original sentence under these proceedings.
      Changes Made to Rule 43 After Publication ("GAP Report"). The
    Committee made no changes to the draft amendment as published.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 43 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The first substantive change is reflected in Rule 43(a), which
    recognizes several exceptions to the requirement that a defendant
    must be present in court for all proceedings. In addition to
    referring to exceptions that might exist in Rule 43 itself, the
    amendment recognizes that a defendant need not be present when the
    court has permitted video teleconferencing procedures under Rules 5
    and 10 or when the defendant has waived the right to be present for
    the arraignment under Rule 10. Second, by inserting the word
    "initial" before "arraignment," revised Rule 43(a)(1) reflects the
    view that a defendant need not be present for subsequent
    arraignments based upon a superseding indictment.
      The Rule has been reorganized to make it easier to read and
    apply; revised Rule 43(b) is former Rule 43(c).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b). This rule currently allows proceedings in a
    misdemeanor case to be conducted in the defendant's absence with
    the defendant's written consent and the court's permission. The
    amendment allows participation through video teleconference as an
    alternative to appearing in person or not appearing. Participation
    by video teleconference is permitted only when the defendant has
    consented in writing and received the court's permission.
      The Committee reiterates the concerns expressed in the 2002
    Committee Notes to Rules 5 and 10, when those rules were amended to
    permit video teleconferencing. The Committee recognized the
    intangible benefits and impact of requiring a defendant to appear
    before a federal judicial officer in a federal courtroom, and what
    is lost when virtual presence is substituted for actual presence.
    These concerns are particularly heightened when a defendant is not
    present for the determination of guilt and sentencing. However, the
    Committee concluded that the use of video teleconferencing may be
    valuable in circumstances where the defendant would otherwise be
    unable to attend and the rule now authorizes proceedings in
    absentia.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    Because the Advisory Committee withdrew its proposal to amend Rule
    32.1 to allow for video teleconferencing, the cross reference to
    Rule 32.1 in Rule 43(a) was deleted.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1975 - Pub. L. 94-64 amended subd. (b)(2) generally.

      EFFECTIVE DATE OF AMENDMENTS PROPOSED APRIL 22, 1974; EFFECTIVE
                          DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENTS
      Amendments of this rule embraced in the order of the United
    States Supreme Court on Apr. 22, 1974 and the amendments of this
    rule made by section 3 of Pub. L. 94-64, effective Dec. 1, 1975,
    see section 2 of Pub. L. 94-64, set out as a note under rule 4 of
    these rules.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 44                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 44. Right to and Appointment of Counsel

-STATUTE-
      (a) Right to Appointed Counsel. A defendant who is unable to
    obtain counsel is entitled to have counsel appointed to represent
    the defendant at every stage of the proceeding from initial
    appearance through appeal, unless the defendant waives this right.
      (b) Appointment Procedure. Federal law and local court rules
    govern the procedure for implementing the right to counsel.
      (c) Inquiry Into Joint Representation.
        (1) Joint Representation. Joint representation occurs when:
          (A) two or more defendants have been charged jointly under
        Rule 8(b) or have been joined for trial under Rule 13; and
          (B) the defendants are represented by the same counsel, or
        counsel who are associated in law practice.

        (2) Court's Responsibilities in Cases of Joint Representation.
      The court must promptly inquire about the propriety of joint
      representation and must personally advise each defendant of the
      right to the effective assistance of counsel, including separate
      representation. Unless there is good cause to believe that no
      conflict of interest is likely to arise, the court must take
      appropriate measures to protect each defendant's right to
      counsel.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff.
    Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 30, 1979, eff. Dec. 1, 1980; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule is a restatement of existing law in regard to the
    defendant's constitutional right of counsel as defined in recent
    judicial decisions. The Sixth Amendment provides:

      "In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right
    * * * to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense."

    28 U.S.C. former Sec. 394 (now Sec. 1654) provides:

      "In all the courts of the United States the parties may plead and
    manage their own causes personally, or by the assistance of such
    counsel or attorneys at law as, by the rules of the said courts,
    respectively, are permitted to manage and conduct causes therein."

    18 U.S.C. former Sec. 563 (now Sec. 3005), which is derived from
    the act of April 30, 1790 (1 Stat. 118), provides:

      "Every person who is indicted of treason or other capital crime,
    shall be allowed to make his full defense by counsel learned in the
    law; and the court before which he is tried or some judge thereof,
    shall immediately, upon his request, assign to him such counsel,
    not exceeding two, as he may desire, and they shall have free
    access to him at all seasonable hours."

    The present extent of the right of counsel has been defined
    recently in Johnson v. Zerbst, 304 U.S. 458; Walker v. Johnston,
    312 U.S. 275; and Glasser v. United States, 315 U.S. 60. The rule
    is a restatement of the principles enunciated in these decisions.
    See, also, Holtzoff, 20 N.Y.U.L.Q.R. 1.
      2. The rule is intended to indicate that the right of the
    defendant to have counsel assigned by the court relates only to
    proceedings in court and, therefore, does not include preliminary
    proceedings before a committing magistrate. Although the defendant
    is not entitled to have counsel assigned to him in connection with
    preliminary proceedings, he is entitled to be represented by
    counsel retained by him, if he so chooses, Rule 5(b) (Proceedings
    before the Commissioner; Statement by the Commissioner) and Rule
    40(b)(2) (Commitment to Another District; Removal - Arrest in
    Distant District - Statement by Commissioner or Judge). As to
    defendant's right of counsel in connection with the taking of
    depositions, see Rule 15(c) (Depositions - Defendant's Counsel and
    Payment of Expenses).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      A new rule is provided as a substitute for the old to provide for
    the assignment of counsel to defendants unable to obtain counsel
    during all stages of the proceeding. The Supreme Court has recently
    made clear the importance of providing counsel both at the earliest
    possible time after arrest and on appeal. See Crooker v.
    California, 357 U.S. 433 (1958); Cicenia v. LaGay, 357 U.S. 504
    (1958); White v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 59 (1963); Gideon v.
    Wainwright, 372 U.S. 335 (1963); Douglas v. California, 372 U.S.
    353 (1963). See also Association of the Bar of the City of New
    York, Special Committee to Study the Defender System, Equal Justice
    for the Accused (1959); Report of the Attorney General's Committee
    on Poverty and the Administration of Justice (1963); Beaney, Right
    to Counsel Before Arraignment, 45 Minn.L.Rev. 771 (1961); Boskey,
    The Right to Counsel in Appellate Proceedings, 45 Minn.L.Rev. 783
    (1961); Douglas, The Right to Counsel - A Foreword, 45 Minn.L.Rev.
    693 (1961); Kamisar, The Right to Counsel and the Fourteenth
    Amendment; A Dialogue on "The Most Pervasive Right" of an Accused,
    30 U.Chi.L.Rev. 1 (1962); Kamisar, Betts v. Brady Twenty Years
    Later: The Right to Counsel and Due Process Values, 61 Mich.L.Rev.
    219 (1962); Symposium, The Right to Counsel, 22 Legal Aid Briefcase
    4-48 (1963). Provision has been made by law for a Legal Aid Agency
    in the District of Columbia which is charged with the duty of
    providing counsel and courts are admonished to assign such counsel
    "as early in the proceeding as practicable." D.C. Code Sec. 2-2202.
    Congress has now made provision for assignment of counsel and their
    compensation in all of the districts. Criminal Justice Act of 1964
    (78 Stat. 552).
      Like the original rule the amended rule provides a right to
    counsel which is broader in two respects than that for which
    compensation is provided in the Criminal Justice Act of 1964: (1)
    the right extends to petty offenses to be tried in the district
    courts, and (2) the right extends to defendants unable to obtain
    counsel for reasons other than financial. These rules do not cover
    procedures other than those in the courts of the United States and
    before United States commissioners. See Rule 1. Hence, the problems
    relating to the providing of counsel prior to the initial
    appearance before a court or commissioner are not dealt with in
    this rule. Cf. Escobedo v. United States, 378 U.S. 478 (1964);
    Enker and Elsen, Counsel for the Suspect: Massiah v. United States
    and Escobedo v. Illinois, 49 Minn.L.Rev. 47 (1964).
      Subdivision (a). - This subdivision expresses the right of the
    defendant unable to obtain counsel to have such counsel assigned at
    any stage of the proceedings from his initial appearance before the
    commissioner or court through the appeal, unless he waives such
    right. The phrase "from his initial appearance before the
    commissioner or court" is intended to require the assignment of
    counsel as promptly as possible after it appears that the defendant
    is unable to obtain counsel. The right to assignment of counsel is
    not limited to those financially unable to obtain counsel. If a
    defendant is able to compensate counsel but still cannot obtain
    counsel, he is entitled to the assignment of counsel even though
    not to free counsel.
      Subdivision (b). - This new subdivision reflects the adoption of
    the Criminal Justice Act of 1964. See Report of the Judicial
    Conference of the United States on the Criminal Justice Act of
    1964, 36 F.R.D. 277 (1964).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a) is amended to reflect the Federal Magistrates Act
    of 1968. The phrase "federal magistrate" is defined in rule 54.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1979 AMENDMENT       
      Note to Subdivision (c). Rule 44(c) establishes a procedure for
    avoiding the occurrence of events which might otherwise give rise
    to a plausible post-conviction claim that because of joint
    representation the defendants in a criminal case were deprived of
    their Sixth Amendment right to the effective assistance of counsel.
    Although "courts have differed with respect to the scope and nature
    of the affirmative duty of the trial judge to assure that criminal
    defendants are not deprived of their right to the effective
    assistance of counsel by joint representation of conflicting
    interests," Holloway v. Arkansas, 98 S.Ct. 1173 (1978) (where the
    Court found it unnecessary to reach this issue), this amendment is
    generally consistent with the current state of the law in several
    circuits. As held in United States v. Carrigan, 543 F.2d 1053 (2d
    Cir. 1976):
      When a potential conflict of interest arises, either where a
      court has assigned the same counsel to represent several
      defendants or where the same counsel has been retained by co-
      defendants in a criminal case, the proper course of action for
      the trial judge is to conduct a hearing to determine whether a
      conflict exists to the degree that a defendant may be prevented
      from receiving advice and assistance sufficient to afford him the
      quality of representation guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment. The
      defendant should be fully advised by the trial court of the facts
      underlying the potential conflict and be given the opportunity to
      express his views.
    See also United States v. Lawriw, 568 F.2d 98 (8th Cir. 1977) (duty
    on trial judge to make inquiry where joint representation by
    appointed or retained counsel, and "without such an inquiry a
    finding of knowing and intelligent waiver will seldom, if ever, be
    sustained by this Court"); Abraham v. United States, 549 F.2d 236
    (2d Cir. 1977); United States v. Mari, 526 F.2d 117 (2d Cir. 1975);
    United States v. Truglio, 493 F.2d 574 (4th Cir. 1974) (joint
    representation should cause trial judge "to inquire whether the
    defenses to be presented in any way conflict"); United States v.
    DeBerry, 487 F.2d 488 (2d Cir. 1973); United States ex rel. Hart v.
    Davenport, 478 F.2d 203 (3d Cir. 1973) (noting there "is much to be
    said for the rule . . . which assumes prejudice and nonwaiver if
    there has been no on-the-record inquiry by the court as to the
    hazards to defendants from joint representation"; United States v.
    Alberti, 470 F.2d 878 (2d Cir. 1973); United States v. Foster, 469
    F.2d 1 (1st Cir. 1972) (lack of sufficient inquiry shifts the
    burden of proof on the question of prejudice to the government);
    Campbell v. United States, 352 F.2d 359 (D.C. Cir. 1965) (where
    joint representation, court "has a duty to ascertain whether each
    defendant has an awareness of the potential risks of that course
    and nevertheless has knowingly chosen it"). Some states have taken
    a like position; see, e.g., State v. Olsen,  -  -  Minn.  -  - ,
    258 N.W.2d 898 (1977).
      This procedure is also consistent with that recommended in the
    ABA Standards Relating to the Function of the Trial Judge (Approved
    Draft, 1972), which provide in Sec. 3.4(b):
        Whenever two or more defendants who have been jointly charged,
      or whose cases have been consolidated, are represented by the
      same attorney, the trial judge should inquire into potential
      conflicts which may jeopardize the right of each defendant to the
      fidelity of his counsel.
      Avoiding a conflict-of-interest situation is in the first
    instance a responsibility of the attorney. If a lawyer represents
    "multiple clients having potentially differing interests, he must
    weigh carefully the possibility that his judgment may be impaired
    or his loyalty divided if he accepts or continues the employment,"
    and he is to "resolve all doubts against the propriety of the
    representation." Code of Professional Responsibility, Ethical
    Consideration 5-15. See also ABA Standards Relating to the Defense
    Function Sec. 3.5(b) (Approved Draft, 1971), concluding that the
    "potential for conflict of interest in representing multiple
    defendants is so grave that ordinarily a lawyer should decline to
    act for more than one of several co-defendants except in unusual
    situations when, after careful investigation, it is clear that no
    conflict is likely to develop and when the several defendants give
    an informed consent to such multiple representation."
      It by no means follows that the inquiry provided for by rule
    44(c) is unnecessary. For one thing, even the most diligent
    attorney may be unaware of facts giving rise to a potential
    conflict. Often "counsel must operate somewhat in the dark and feel
    their way uncertainly to an understanding of what their clients may
    be called upon to meet upon a trial" and consequently "are
    frequently unable to foresee developments which may require changes
    in strategy." United States v. Carrigan, supra (concurring
    opinion). "Because the conflicts are often subtle it is not enough
    to rely upon counsel, who may not be totally disinterested, to make
    sure that each of his joint clients has made an effective waiver."
    United States v. Lawriw, supra.
      Moreover, it is important that the trial judge ascertain whether
    the effective and fair administration of justice would be adversely
    affected by continued joint representation, even when an actual
    conflict is not then apparent. As noted in United States v. Mari,
    supra (concurring opinion):
        Trial court insistence that, except in extraordinary
      circumstances, codefendants retain separate counsel will in the
      long run . . . prove salutary not only to the administration of
      justice and the appearance of justice but the cost of justice;
      habeas corpus petitions, petitions for new trials, appeals and
      occasionally retrials . . . can be avoided. Issues as to whether
      there is an actual conflict of interest, whether the conflict has
      resulted in prejudice, whether there has been a waiver, whether
      the waiver is intelligent and knowledgeable, for example, can all
      be avoided. Where a conflict that first did not appear
      subsequently arises in or before trial, . . . continuances or
      mistrials can be saved. Essentially by the time a case . . . gets
      to the appellate level the harm to the appearance of justice has
      already been done, whether or not reversal occurs; at the trial
      level it is a matter which is so easy to avoid.
      A rule 44(c) inquiry is required whether counsel is assigned or
    retained. It "makes no difference whether counsel is appointed by
    the court or selected by the defendants; even where selected by the
    defendants the same dangers of potential conflict exist, and it is
    also possible that the rights of the public to the proper
    administration of justice may be affected adversely." United States
    v. Mari, supra (concurring opinion). See also United States v.
    Lawriw, supra. When there has been "no discussion as to possible
    conflict initiated by the court," it cannot be assumed that the
    choice of counsel by the defendants "was intelligently made with
    knowledge of any possible conflict." United States v. Carrigan,
    supra. As for assigned counsel, it is provided by statute that "the
    court shall appoint separate counsel for defendants having
    interests that cannot properly be represented by the same counsel,
    or when other good cause is shown." 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3006(A)(b). Rule
    44(c) is not intended to prohibit the automatic appointment of
    separate counsel in the first instance, see Ford v. United States,
    379 F.2d 123 (D.C. Cir. 1967); Lollar v. United States, 376 F.2d
    243 (D.C. Cir. 1967), which would obviate the necessity for an
    inquiry.
      Under rule 44(c), an inquiry is called for when the joined
    defendants are represented by the same attorney and also when they
    are represented by attorneys "associated in the practice of law."
    This is consistent with Code of Professional Responsibility,
    Disciplinary Rule 5-105(D) (providing that if "a lawyer is required
    to decline employment or to withdraw from employment" because of a
    potential conflict, "no partner or associate of his or his firm may
    accept or continue such employment"); and ABA Standards Relating to
    the Defense Function Sec. 3.5(b) (Approved Draft, 1971) (applicable
    to "a lawyer or lawyers who are associated in practice"). Attorneys
    representing joined defendants should so advise the court if they
    are associated in the practice of law.
      The rule 44(c) procedure is not limited to cases expected to go
    to trial. Although the more dramatic conflict situations, such as
    when the question arises as to whether the several defendants
    should take the stand, Morgan v. United States, 396 F.2d 110 (2d
    Cir. 1968), tend to occur in a trial context, serious conflicts may
    also arise when one or more of the jointly represented defendants
    pleads guilty.
        The problem is that even where as here both codefendants
      pleaded guilty there are frequently potential conflicts of
      interest . . . [T]he prosecutor may be inclined to accept a
      guilty plea from one codefendant which may harm the interests of
      the other. The contrast in the dispositions of the cases may have
      a harmful impact on the codefendant who does not initially plead
      guilty; he may be pressured into pleading guilty himself rather
      than face his codefendant's bargained-for testimony at a trial.
      And it will be his own counsel's recommendation to the initially
      pleading codefendant which will have contributed to this harmful
      impact upon him . . . [I]n a given instance it would be at least
      conceivable that the prosecutor would be willing to accept pleas
      to lesser offenses from two defendants in preference to a plea of
      guilty by one defendant to a greater offense.
    United States v. Mari, supra (concurring opinion). To the same
    effect is ABA Standards Relating to the Defense Function at 213-14.
      It is contemplated that under rule 44(c) the court will make
    appropriate inquiry of the defendants and of counsel regarding the
    possibility of a conflict of interest developing. Whenever it is
    necessary to make a more particularized inquiry into the nature of
    the contemplated defense, the court should "pursue the inquiry with
    defendants and their counsel on the record but in chambers" so as
    "to avoid the possibility of prejudicial disclosures to the
    prosecution." United States v. Foster, supra. It is important that
    each defendant be "fully advised of the facts underlying the
    potential conflict and is given an opportunity to express his or
    her views." United States v. Alberti, supra. The rule specifically
    requires that the court personally advise each defendant of his
    right to effective assistance of counsel, including separate
    representation. See United States v. Foster, supra, requiring that
    the court make a determination that jointly represented defendants
    "understand that they may retain separate counsel, or if qualified,
    may have such counsel appointed by the court and paid for by the
    government."
      Under rule 44(c), the court is to take appropriate measures to
    protect each defendant's right to counsel unless it appears "there
    is good cause to believe no conflict of interest is likely to
    arise" as a consequence of the continuation of such joint
    representation. A less demanding standard would not adequately
    protect the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of
    counsel or the effective administration of criminal justice.
    Although joint representation "is not per se violative of
    constitutional guarantees of effective assistance of counsel,
    Holloway v. Arkansas, supra, it would not suffice to require the
    court to act only when a conflict of interest is then apparent, for
    it is not possible "to anticipate with complete accuracy the course
    that a criminal trial may take." Fryar v. United States, 404 F.2d
    1071 (10th Cir. 1968). This is particularly so in light of the fact
    that if a conflict later arises and a defendant thereafter raises a
    Sixth Amendment objection, a court must grant relief without
    indulging "in nice calculations as to the amount of prejudice
    arising from its denial." Glasser v. United States, 315 U.S. 60
    (1942). This is because, as the Supreme Court more recently noted
    in Holloway v. Arkansas, supra, "in a case of joint representation
    of conflicting interests the evil . . . is in what the advocate
    finds himself compelled to refrain from doing," and this makes it
    "virtually impossible" to assess the impact of the conflict.
      Rule 44(c) does not specify what particular measures must be
    taken. It is appropriate to leave this within the court's
    discretion, for the measures which will best protect each
    defendant's right to counsel may well vary from case to case. One
    possible course of action is for the court to obtain a knowing,
    intelligent and voluntary waiver of the right to separate
    representation, for, as noted in Holloway v. Arkansas, supra, "a
    defendant may waive his right to the assistance of an attorney
    unhindered by a conflict of interests." See United States v.
    DeBerry, supra, holding that defendants should be jointly
    represented only if "the court has ascertained that . . . each
    understands clearly the possibilities of a conflict of interest and
    waives any rights in connection with it." It must be emphasized
    that a "waiver of the right to separate representation should not
    be accepted by the court unless the defendants have each been
    informed of the probable hazards; and the voluntary character of
    their waiver is apparent." ABA Standards Relating to the Function
    of the Trial Judge at 45. United States v. Garcia, supra, spells
    out in significant detail what should be done to assure an adequate
    waiver:
        As in Rule 11 procedures, the district court should address
      each defendant personally and forthrightly advise him of the
      potential dangers of representation by counsel with a conflict of
      interest. The defendant must be at liberty to question the
      district court as to the nature and consequences of his legal
      representation. Most significantly, the court should seek to
      elicit a narrative response from each defendant that he has been
      advised of his right to effective representation, that he
      understands the details of his attorney's possible conflict of
      interest and the potential perils of such a conflict, that he has
      discussed the matter with his attorney or if he wishes with
      outside counsel, and that he voluntarily waives his Sixth
      Amendment protections. It is, of course, vital that the waiver be
      established by "clear, unequivocal, and unambiguous language." .
      . . Mere assent in response to a series of questions from the
      bench may in some circumstances constitute an adequate waiver,
      but the court should nonetheless endeavor to have each defendant
      personally articulate in detail his intent to forego this
      significant constitutional protection. Recordation of the waiver
      colloque between defendant and judge, will also serve the
      government's interest by assisting in shielding any potential
      conviction from collateral attack, either on Sixth Amendment
      grounds or on a Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment "fundamental
      fairness" basis.
    See also Hyman, Joint Representation of Multiple Defendants in a
    Criminal Trial: The Court's Headache, 5 Hofstra L.Rev. 315, 334
    (1977).
      Another possibility is that the court will order that the
    defendants be separately represented in subsequent proceedings in
    the case. Though the court must remain alert to and take account of
    the fact that "certain advantages might accrue from joint
    representation," Holloway v. Arkansas, supra, it need not permit
    the joint representation to continue merely because the defendants
    express a willingness to so proceed. That is,
      there will be cases where the court should require separate
      counsel to represent certain defendants despite the expressed
      wishes of such defendants. Indeed, failure of the trial court to
      require separate representation may . . . require a new trial,
      even though the defendants have expressed a desire to continue
      with the same counsel. The right to effective representation by
      counsel whose loyalty is undivided is so paramount in the proper
      administration of criminal justice that it must in some cases
      take precedence over all other considerations, including the
      expressed preference of the defendants concerned and their
      attorney.
    United States v. Carrigan, supra (concurring opinion). See also
    United States v. Lawriw, supra; Abraham v. United States, supra;
    ABA Standards Relating to the Defense Function at 213, concluding
    that in some circumstances "even full disclosure and consent of the
    client may not be an adequate protection." As noted in United
    States v. Dolan, 570 F.2d 1177 (3d Cir. 1978), such an order may be
    necessary where the trial judge is
      not satisfied that the waiver is proper. For example, a defendant
      may be competent enough to stand trial, but not competent enough
      to understand the complex, subtle, and sometimes unforeseeable
      dangers inherent in multiple representation. More importantly,
      the judge may find that the waiver cannot be intelligently made
      simply because he is not in a position to inform the defendant of
      the foreseeable prejudices multiple representation might entail
      for him.
      As concluded in Dolan, "exercise of the court's supervisory
    powers by disqualifying an attorney representing multiple criminal
    defendants in spite of the defendants' express desire to retain
    that attorney does not necessarily abrogate defendant's sixth
    amendment rights". It does not follow from the absolute right of
    self-representation recognized in Faretta v. California, 422 U.S.
    806 (1975), that there is an absolute right to counsel of one's own
    choice. Thus,
      when a trial court finds an actual conflict of interest which
      impairs the ability of a criminal defendant's chosen counsel to
      conform with the ABA Code of Professional Responsibility, the
      court should not be required to tolerate an inadequate
      representation of a defendant. Such representation not only
      constitutes a breach of professional ethics and invites
      disrespect for the integrity of the court, but it is also
      detrimental to the independent interest of the trial judge to be
      free from future attacks over the adequacy of the waiver or the
      fairness of the proceedings in his own court and the subtle
      problems implicating the defendant's comprehension of the waiver.
      Under such circumstances, the court can elect to exercise its
      supervisory authority over members of the bar to enforce the
      ethical standard requiring an attorney to decline multiple
      representation.
    United States v. Dolan, supra. See also Geer, Conflict of Interest
    and Multiple Defendants in a Criminal Case: Professional
    Responsibilities of the Defense Attorney, 62 Minn.L.Rev. 119
    (1978); Note, Conflict of Interests in Multiple Representation of
    Criminal Co-Defendants, 68 J.Crim.L.&C. 226 (1977).
      The failure in a particular case to conduct a rule 44(c) inquiry
    would not, standing alone, necessitate the reversal of a conviction
    of a jointly represented defendant. However, as is currently the
    case, a reviewing court is more likely to assume a conflict
    resulted from the joint representation when no inquiry or an
    inadequate inquiry was conducted. United States v. Carrigan, supra;
    United States v. DeBerry, supra. On the other hand, the mere fact
    that a rule 44(c) inquiry was conducted in the early stages of the
    case does not relieve the court of all responsibility in this
    regard thereafter. The obligation placed upon the court by rule
    44(c) is a continuing one, and thus in a particular case further
    inquiry may be necessary on a later occasion because of new
    developments suggesting a potential conflict of interest.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 44 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Revised Rule 44 now refers to the "appointment" of counsel,
    rather than the assignment of counsel; the Committee believed the
    former term was more appropriate. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3006A. In Rule
    44(c), the term "retained or assigned" has been deleted as being
    unnecessary, without changing the court's responsibility to conduct
    an inquiry where joint representation occurs.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1979 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of this rule by addition of subd. (c) by order of the
    United States Supreme Court of Apr. 30, 1979, effective Dec. 1,
    1980, see section 1(1) of Pub. L. 96-42, July 31, 1979, 93 Stat.
    326, set out as a note under section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary
    and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 45                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 45. Computing and Extending Time

-STATUTE-
      (a) Computing Time. The following rules apply in computing any
    time period specified in these rules, in any local rule or court
    order, or in any statute that does not specify a method of
    computing time.
        (1) Period Stated in Days or a Longer Unit. When the period is
      stated in days or a longer unit of time:
          (A) exclude the day of the event that triggers the period;
          (B) count every day, including intermediate Saturdays,
        Sundays, and legal holidays; and
          (C) include the last day of the period, but if the last day
        is a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the period continues
        to run until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday,
        Sunday, or legal holiday.

        (2) Period Stated in Hours. When the period is stated in hours:
          (A) begin counting immediately on the occurrence of the event
        that triggers the period;
          (B) count every hour, including hours during intermediate
        Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays; and
          (C) if the period would end on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
        holiday, the period continues to run until the same time on the
        next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.

        (3) Inaccessibility of the Clerk's Office. Unless the court
      orders otherwise, if the clerk's office is inaccessible:
          (A) on the last day for filing under Rule 45(a)(1), then the
        time for filing is extended to the first accessible day that is
        not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday; or
          (B) during the last hour for filing under Rule 45(a)(2), then
        the time for filing is extended to the same time on the first
        accessible day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal
        holiday.

        (4) "Last Day" Defined. Unless a different time is set by a
      statute, local rule, or court order, the last day ends:
          (A) for electronic filing, at midnight in the court's time
        zone; and
          (B) for filing by other means, when the clerk's office is
        scheduled to close.

        (5) "Next Day" Defined. The "next day" is determined by
      continuing to count forward when the period is measured after an
      event and backward when measured before an event.
        (6) "Legal Holiday" Defined. "Legal holiday" means:
          (A) the day set aside by statute for observing New Year's
        Day, Martin Luther King Jr.'s Birthday, Washington's Birthday,
        Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day,
        Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, or Christmas Day;
          (B) any day declared a holiday by the President or Congress;
        and
          (C) for periods that are measured after an event, any other
        day declared a holiday by the state where the district court is
        located.

      (b) Extending Time.
        (1) In General. When an act must or may be done within a
      specified period, the court on its own may extend the time, or
      for good cause may do so on a party's motion made:
          (A) before the originally prescribed or previously extended
        time expires; or
          (B) after the time expires if the party failed to act because
        of excusable neglect.

        (2) Exception. The court may not extend the time to take any
      action under Rule 35, except as stated in that rule.

      (c) Additional Time After Certain Kinds of Service. Whenever a
    party must or may act within a specified period after service and
    service is made in the manner provided under Federal Rule of Civil
    Procedure 5(b)(2)(C), (D), (E), or (F), 3 days are added after the
    period would otherwise expire under subdivision (a).

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Dec. 4, 1967, eff.
    July 1, 1968; Mar. 1, 1971, eff. July 1, 1971; Apr. 28, 1982, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1982; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 25, 2005, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2005; Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007; Apr. 23, 2008, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2008; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The rule is in substance the same as Rule 6 of the Federal Rules
    of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. It seems desirable that
    matters covered by this rule should be regulated in the same manner
    for civil and criminal cases, in order to preclude possibility of
    confusion.
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule supersedes the method of
    computing time prescribed by Rule 13 of the Criminal Appeals Rules,
    promulgated on May 7, 1934, 292 U.S. 661.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule abolishes the expiration of a
    term of court as a time limitation for the taking of any step in a
    criminal proceeding, as is done for civil cases by Rule 6(c) of the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. In view of
    the fact that the duration of terms of court varies among the
    several districts and the further fact that the length of time for
    the taking of any step limited by a term of court depends on the
    stage within the term when the time begins to run, specific time
    limitations have been substituted for the taking of any step which
    previously had to be taken within the term of court.
      Note to Subdivision (d). Cf. Rule 47 (Motions) and Rule 49
    (Service and filing of papers).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). - This amendment conforms the subdivision with
    the amendments made effective on July 1, 1963, to the comparable
    provision in Civil Rule 6(a). The only major change is to treat
    Saturdays as legal holidays for the purpose of computing time.
      Subdivision (b). - The amendment conforms the subdivision to the
    amendments made effective in 1948 to the comparable provision in
    Civil Rule 6(b). One of these conforming changes, substituting the
    words "extend the time" for the words "enlarge the period"
    clarifies the ambiguity which gave rise to the decision in United
    States v. Robinson, 361 U.S. 220 (1960). The amendment also, in
    connection with the amendments to Rules 29 and 37, makes it clear
    that the only circumstances under which extensions can be granted
    under Rules 29, 33, 34, 35, 37(a)(2) and 39(c) are those stated in
    them.
      Subdivision (c). - Subdivision (c) of Rule 45 is rescinded as
    unnecessary in view of the 1963 amendment to 28 U.S.C. Sec. 138
    eliminating terms of court.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1968 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment eliminates inappropriate references to Rules 37 and
    39 which are to be abrogated.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1971 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment adds Columbus Day to the list of legal holidays to
    conform the subdivision to the Act of June 28, 1968, 82 Stat. 250,
    which constituted Columbus Day a legal holiday effective after
    January 1, 1971.
      The Act, which amended Title 5, U.S.C., Sec. 6103(a), changes the
    day on which certain holidays are to be observed. Washington's
    Birthday, Memorial Day and Veterans Day are to be observed on the
    third Monday in February, the last Monday in May and the fourth
    Monday in October, respectively, rather than, as heretofore, on
    February 22, May 30, and November 11, respectively. Columbus Day is
    to be observed on the second Monday in October. New Year's Day,
    Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas continue to be
    observed on the traditional days.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1982 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment to subdivision (a) takes account of the fact that
    on rare occasion severe weather conditions or other circumstances
    beyond control will make it impossible to meet a filing deadline
    under Rule 45(a). Illustrative is an incident which occurred in
    Columbus, Ohio during the "great blizzard of 1978," in which
    weather conditions deteriorated to the point where personnel in the
    clerk's office found it virtually impossible to reach the
    courthouse, and where the GSA Building Manager found it necessary
    to close and secure the entire building. The amendment covers that
    situation and also similar situations in which weather or other
    conditions made the clerk's office, though open, not readily
    accessible to the lawyer. Whether the clerk's office was in fact
    "inaccessible" on a given date is to be determined by the district
    court. Some state time computation statutes contain language
    somewhat similar to that in the amendment; see, e.g., Md.Code Ann.
    art. 94, Sec. 2.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      The rule is amended to extend the exclusion of intermediate
    Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays to the computation of time
    periods less than 11 days. Under the current version of the Rule,
    parties bringing motions under rules with 10-day periods could have
    as few as 5 working days to prepare their motions. This change
    corresponds to the change being made in the comparable provision in
    Fed.R.Civ.P. 6(a).
      The Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr., which becomes a legal
    holiday effective January 1986, has been added to the list of legal
    holidays enumerated in the Rule.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 45 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The additional three days provided by Rule 45(c) is extended to
    the means of service authorized by the new paragraph (D) added to
    Rule 5(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, including - with
    the consent of the person served - service by electronic means. The
    means of service authorized in civil actions apply to criminal
    cases under Rule 49(b).
      Rule 45(d), which governs the timing of written motions and
    affidavits, has been moved to Rule 47.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005 AMENDMENT             
      Rule 45(b) has been amended to conform to amendments to Rules 29,
    33, and 34, which have been amended to remove the requirement that
    the court must act within the seven-day period specified in each of
    those rules if it sets another time for filing a motion under those
    rules.
      Currently, Rules 29(c)(1), 33(b)(2), and 34(b) require the
    defendant to move for relief under those rules within the seven-day
    periods specified in those rules or within some other time set by
    the court in an order issued during that same seven-day period.
    Courts have held that the seven-day rule is jurisdictional. Thus,
    for example, if a defendant files a request for an extension of
    time to file a motion for a judgment of acquittal or a motion for
    new trial within the seven-day period, the court must rule on that
    motion or request within the same seven-day period. If for some
    reason the court does not rule on the request for an extension of
    time within the seven days, the court loses jurisdiction to act on
    the underlying substantive motion. See, e.g., United States v.
    Smith, 331 U.S. 469, 473-474 (1947) (rejecting argument that trial
    court had power to grant new trial on its own motion after
    expiration of time in Rule 33); United States v. Marquez, 291 F.3d
    23, 27-28 (D.C. Cir. 2002) (citing language of Rule 33, and holding
    that "district court forfeited the power to act when it failed to .
    . . fix a new time for filing a motion for a new trial within seven
    days of the verdict").
      Rule 45(b)(2) currently specifies that a court may not extend the
    time for taking action under Rules 29, 33, or 34, except as
    provided in those rules.
      Assuming that the current provisions in Rules 29, 33, and 34 were
    intended to promote finality, there is nothing to prevent the court
    from granting the defendant a significant extension of time, under
    those rules, as long as it does so within the seven-day period.
    Thus, the Committee believed that those rules should be amended to
    be consistent with all of the other timing requirements in the
    rules, which do not force the court to rule on a motion to extend
    the time for filing, within a particular period of time or lose
    jurisdiction to do so. The change to Rule 45(b)(2) is thus a
    conforming amendment.
      The defendant is still required to file motions under Rules 29,
    33, and 34 within the seven-day period specified in those rules.
    The defendant, however, may consistently with Rule 45, seek an
    extension of time to file the underlying motion as long as the
    defendant does so within the seven-day period. But the court itself
    is not required to act on that motion within any particular time.
    Further, under Rule 45(b)(1)(B), if for some reason the defendant
    fails to file the underlying motion within the specified time, the
    court may nonetheless consider that untimely motion if the court
    determines that the failure to file it on time was the result of
    excusable neglect.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee made no
    substantive changes to Rule 45 following publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2007 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (c). Rule 45(c) is amended to remove any doubt as to
    the method for extending the time to respond after service by mail,
    leaving with the clerk of court, electronic means, or other means
    consented to by the party served. This amendment parallels the
    change in Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 6(e). Three days are
    added after the prescribed period otherwise expires under Rule
    45(a). Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays are
    included in counting these added three days. If the third day is a
    Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the last day to act is the next
    day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. The effect of
    invoking the day that the rule would otherwise expire under Rule
    45(a) can be illustrated by assuming that the thirtieth day of a
    thirty-day period is a Saturday. Under Rule 45(a) the period
    expires on the next day that is not a Sunday or legal holiday. If
    the following Monday is a legal holiday, under Rule 45(a) the
    period expires on Tuesday. Three days are then added - Wednesday,
    Thursday, and Friday as the third and final day to act unless that
    is a legal holiday. If the prescribed period ends on a Friday, the
    three added days are Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, which is the
    third and final day to act unless it is a legal holiday. If Monday
    is a legal holiday, the next day that is not a legal holiday is the
    third and final day to act.
      Application of Rule 45(c) to a period that is less than eleven
    days can be illustrated by a paper that is served by mailing on a
    Friday. If ten days are allowed to respond, intermediate Saturdays,
    Sundays, and legal holidays are excluded in determining when the
    period expires under Rule 45(a). If there is no legal holiday, the
    period expires on the Friday two weeks after the paper was mailed.
    The three added Rule 45(c) days are Saturday, Sunday, and Monday,
    which is the third and final day to act unless it is a legal
    holiday. If Monday is a legal holiday, the next day that is not a
    legal holiday is the final day to act.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No change was made in the rule as published for public comment.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      This amendment revises the cross references to Civil Rule 5,
    which have been renumbered as part of a general restyling of the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. No substantive change is
    intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (a). Subdivision (a) has been amended to simplify and
    clarify the provisions that describe how deadlines are computed.
    Subdivision (a) governs the computation of any time period found in
    a statute that does not specify a method of computing time, a
    Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure, a local rule, or a court order.
    In accordance with Rule 57(a)(1), a local rule may not direct that
    a deadline be computed in a manner inconsistent with subdivision
    (a). In making these time computation rules applicable to statutory
    time periods, subdivision (a) is consistent with Civil Rule 6(a).
    It is also consistent with the language of Rule 45 prior to
    restyling, when the rule applied to "computing any period of time."
    Although the restyled Rule 45(a) referred only to time periods
    "specified in these rules, any local rule, or any court order,"
    some courts nonetheless applied the restyled Rule 45(a) when
    computing various statutory periods.
      The time-computation provisions of subdivision (a) apply only
    when a time period must be computed. They do not apply when a fixed
    time to act is set. The amendments thus carry forward the approach
    taken in Violette v. P.A. Days, Inc., 427 F.3d 1015, 1016 (6th Cir.
    2005) (holding that Civil Rule 6(a) "does not apply to situations
    where the court has established a specific calendar day as a
    deadline"), and reject the contrary holding of In re American
    Healthcare Management, Inc., 900 F.2d 827, 832 (5th Cir. 1990)
    (holding that Bankruptcy Rule 9006(a) governs treatment of a date-
    certain deadline set by court order). If, for example, the date
    for filing is "no later than November 1, 2007," subdivision (a)
    does not govern. But if a filing is required to be made "within 10
    days" or "within 72 hours," subdivision (a) describes how that
    deadline is computed.
      Subdivision (a) does not apply when computing a time period set
    by a statute if the statute specifies a method of computing time.
    See, e.g., 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3142(d) (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
    and holidays from 10 day period). In addition, because the time
    period in Rule 46(h) is derived from 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3142(d) and
    3144, the Committee concluded that Rule 45(a) should not be applied
    to Rule 46(h).
      Subdivision (a)(1). New subdivision (a)(1) addresses the
    computation of time periods that are stated in days. It also
    applies to time periods that are stated in weeks, months, or years.
    See, e.g., Rule 35(b)(1). Subdivision (a)(1)(B)'s directive to
    "count every day" is relevant only if the period is stated in days
    (not weeks, months or years).
      Under former Rule 45(a), a period of 11 days or more was computed
    differently than a period of less than 11 days. Intermediate
    Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays were included in computing
    the longer periods, but excluded in computing the shorter periods.
    Former Rule 45(a) thus made computing deadlines unnecessarily
    complicated and led to counterintuitive results. For example, a 10-
    day period and a 14-day period that started on the same day
    usually ended on the same day - and the 10-day period not
    infrequently ended later than the 14-day period. See Miltimore
    Sales, Inc. v. Int'1 Rectifier, Inc., 412 F.3d 685, 686 (6th Cir.
    2005).
      Under new subdivision (a)(1), all deadlines stated in days (no
    matter the length) are computed in the same way. The day of the
    event that triggers the deadline is not counted. All other days -
    including intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays - are
    counted, with only one exception: if the period ends on a Saturday,
    Sunday, or legal holiday, then the deadline falls on the next day
    that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. An illustration
    is provided below in the discussion of subdivision (a)(5).
    Subdivision (a)(3) addresses filing deadlines that expire on a day
    when the clerk's office is inaccessible.
      Where subdivision (a) formerly referred to the "act, event, or
    default" that triggers the deadline, the new subdivision (a) refers
    simply to the "event" that triggers the deadline; this change in
    terminology is adopted for brevity and simplicity, and is not
    intended to change the meaning.
      Periods previously expressed as less than 11 days will be
    shortened as a practical matter by the decision to count
    intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays in computing
    all periods. Many of those periods have been lengthened to
    compensate for the change. See, e.g., Rules 29(c)(1), 33(b)(2), 34,
    and 35(a).
      Most of the 10-day periods were adjusted to meet the change in
    computation method by setting 14 days as the new period. A 14-day
    period corresponds to the most frequent result of a 10-day period
    under the former computation method - two Saturdays and two Sundays
    were excluded, giving 14 days in all. A 14-day period has an
    additional advantage. The final day falls on the same day of the
    week as the event that triggered the period - the 14th day after a
    Monday, for example, is a Monday. This advantage of using weeklong
    periods led to adopting 7-day periods to replace some of the
    periods set at less than 10 days, and 21-day periods to replace 20-
    day periods. Thirty-day and longer periods, however, were
    generally retained without change.
      Subdivision (a)(2). New subdivision (a)(2) addresses the
    computation of time periods that are stated in hours. No such
    deadline currently appears in the Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure. But some statutes contain deadlines stated in hours, as
    do some court orders issued in expedited proceedings.
      Under subdivision (a)(2), a deadline stated in hours starts to
    run immediately on the occurrence of the event that triggers the
    deadline. The deadline generally ends when the time expires. If,
    however, the time period expires at a specific time (say, 2:17
    p.m.) on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the deadline is
    extended to the same time (2:17 p.m.) on the next day that is not a
    Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Periods stated in hours are not
    to be "rounded up" to the next whole hour. Subdivision (a)(3)
    addresses situations when the clerk's office is inaccessible during
    the last hour before a filing deadline expires.
      Subdivision (a)(2)(B) directs that every hour be counted. Thus,
    for example, a 72-hour period that commences at 10:23 a.m. on
    Friday, November 2, 2007, will run until 9:23 a.m. on Monday,
    November 5; the discrepancy in start and end times in this example
    results from the intervening shift from daylight saving time to
    standard time.
      Subdivision (a)(3). When determining the last day of a filing
    period stated in days or a longer unit of time, a day on which the
    clerk's office is not accessible because of the weather or another
    reason is treated like a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. When
    determining the end of a filing period stated in hours, if the
    clerk's office is inaccessible during the last hour of the filing
    period computed under subdivision (a)(2) then the period is
    extended to the same time on the next day that is not a weekend,
    holiday or day when the clerk's office is inaccessible.
      Subdivision (a)(3)'s extensions apply "[u]nless the court orders
    otherwise." In some circumstances, the court might not wish a
    period of inaccessibility to trigger a full 24-hour extension; in
    those instances, the court can specify a briefer extension.
      The text of the rule no longer refers to "weather or other
    conditions" as the reason for the inaccessibility of the clerk's
    office. The reference to "weather" was deleted from the text to
    underscore that inaccessibility can occur for reasons unrelated to
    weather, such as an outage of the electronic filing system. Weather
    can still be a reason for inaccessibility of the clerk's office.
    The rule does not attempt to define inaccessibility. Rather, the
    concept will continue to develop through caselaw, see, e.g.,
    William G. Phelps, When Is Office of Clerk of Court Inaccessible
    Due to Weather or Other Conditions for Purpose of Computing Time
    Period for Filing Papers under Rule 6(a) of Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure, 135 A.L.R. Fed. 259 (1996) (collecting cases). In
    addition, many local provisions address inaccessibility for
    purposes of electronic filing, see, e.g., D. Kan. Rule CR49.11 ("A
    Filing User whose filing is made untimely as the result of a
    technical failure may seek appropriate relief from the court.").
      Subdivision (a)(4). New subdivision (a)(4) defines the end of the
    last day of a period for purposes of subdivision (a)(1).
    Subdivision (a)(4) does not apply in computing periods stated in
    hours under subdivision (a)(2), and does not apply if a different
    time is set by a statute, local rule, or order in the case. A local
    rule may, for example, address the problems that might arise if a
    single district has clerk's offices in different time zones, or
    provide that papers filed in a drop box after the normal hours of
    the clerk's office are filed as of the day that is date-stamped on
    the papers by a device in the drop box.
      28 U.S.C. Sec. 452 provides that "[a]ll courts of the United
    States shall be deemed always open for the purpose of filing proper
    papers, issuing and returning process, and making motions and
    orders." A corresponding provision exists in Rule 56(a). Some
    courts have held that these provisions permit an after-hours filing
    by handing the papers to an appropriate official. See, e.g.,
    Casalduc v. Diaz, 117 F.2d 915, 917 (1st Cir. 1941). Subdivision
    (a)(4) does not address the effect of the statute on the question
    of after-hours filing; instead, the rule is designed to deal with
    filings in the ordinary course without regard to Section 452.
      Subdivision (a)(5). New subdivision (a)(5) defines the "next" day
    for purposes of subdivisions (a)(1)(C) and (a)(2)(C). The Federal
    Rules of Criminal Procedure contain both forward-looking time
    periods and backward-looking time periods. A forward-looking time
    period requires something to be done within a period of time after
    an event. See, e.g., Rule 35(a) (stating that a court may correct
    an arithmetic or technical error in a sentence "[w]ithin 14 days
    after sentencing"). A backward-looking time period requires
    something to be done within a period of time before an event. See,
    e.g., Rule 47(c) (stating that a party must serve a written motion
    "at least 7 days before the hearing date"). In determining what is
    the "next" day for purposes of subdivisions (a)(1)(C) and
    (a)(2)(C), one should continue counting in the same direction -
    that is, forward when computing a forward-looking period and
    backward when computing a backward-looking period. If, for example,
    a filing is due within 10 days after an event, and the tenth day
    falls on Saturday, September 1, 2007, then the filing is due on
    Tuesday, September 4, 2007 (Monday, September 3, is Labor Day). But
    if a filing is due 10 days before an event, and the tenth day falls
    on Saturday, September 1, then the filing is due on Friday, August
    31. If the clerk's office is inaccessible on August 31, then
    subdivision (a)(3) extends the filing deadline forward to the next
    accessible day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday -
    no earlier than Tuesday, September 4.
      Subdivision (a)(6). New subdivision (a)(6) defines "legal
    holiday" for purposes of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure,
    including the time-computation provisions of subdivision (a).
    Subdivision (a)(6) continues to include within the definition of
    "legal holiday" days that are declared a holiday by the President
    or Congress.
      For forward-counted periods - i.e., periods that are measured
    after an event - subdivision (a)(6)(C) includes certain state
    holidays within the definition of legal holidays. However, state
    legal holidays are not recognized in computing backward-counted
    periods. For both forward- and backward-counted periods, the rule
    thus protects those who may be unsure of the effect of state
    holidays. For forward-counted deadlines, treating state holidays
    the same as federal holidays extends the deadline. Thus, someone
    who thought that the federal courts might be closed on a state
    holiday would be safeguarded against an inadvertent late filing. In
    contrast, for backward-counted deadlines, not giving state holidays
    the treatment of federal holidays allows filing on the state
    holiday itself rather than the day before. Take, for example,
    Monday, April 21, 2008 (Patriot's Day, a legal holiday in the
    relevant state). If a filing is due 14 days after an event, and the
    fourteenth day is April 21, then the filing is due on Tuesday,
    April 22 because Monday, April 21 counts as a legal holiday. But if
    a filing is due 14 days before an event, and the fourteenth day is
    April 21, the filing is due on Monday, April 21; the fact that
    April 21 is a state holiday does not make April 21 a legal holiday
    for purposes of computing this backward-counted deadline. But note
    that if the clerk's office is inaccessible on Monday, April 21,
    then subdivision (a)(3) extends the April 21 filing deadline
    forward to the next accessible day that is not a Saturday, Sunday
    or legal holiday - no earlier than Tuesday, April 22.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    The Standing Committee changed Rule 45(a)(6) to exclude state
    holidays from the definition of "legal holiday" for purposes of
    computing backward-counted periods; conforming changes were made to
    the Committee Note to subdivision (a)(6).

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subd. (c),
    are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 46                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 46. Release from Custody; Supervising Detention

-STATUTE-
      (a) Before Trial. The provisions of 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3142 and 3144
    govern pretrial release.
      (b) During Trial. A person released before trial continues on
    release during trial under the same terms and conditions. But the
    court may order different terms and conditions or terminate the
    release if necessary to ensure that the person will be present
    during trial or that the person's conduct will not obstruct the
    orderly and expeditious progress of the trial.
      (c) Pending Sentencing or Appeal. The provisions of 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3143 govern release pending sentencing or appeal. The burden
    of establishing that the defendant will not flee or pose a danger
    to any other person or to the community rests with the defendant.
      (d) Pending Hearing on a Violation of Probation or Supervised
    Release. Rule 32.1(a)(6) governs release pending a hearing on a
    violation of probation or supervised release.
      (e) Surety. The court must not approve a bond unless any surety
    appears to be qualified. Every surety, except a legally approved
    corporate surety, must demonstrate by affidavit that its assets are
    adequate. The court may require the affidavit to describe the
    following:
        (1) the property that the surety proposes to use as security;
        (2) any encumbrance on that property;
        (3) the number and amount of any other undischarged bonds and
      bail undertakings the surety has issued; and
        (4) any other liability of the surety.

      (f) Bail Forfeiture.
        (1) Declaration. The court must declare the bail forfeited if a
      condition of the bond is breached.
        (2) Setting Aside. The court may set aside in whole or in part
      a bail forfeiture upon any condition the court may impose if:
          (A) the surety later surrenders into custody the person
        released on the surety's appearance bond; or
          (B) it appears that justice does not require bail forfeiture.

        (3) Enforcement.
          (A) Default Judgment and Execution. If it does not set aside
        a bail forfeiture, the court must, upon the government's
        motion, enter a default judgment.
          (B) Jurisdiction and Service. By entering into a bond, each
        surety submits to the district court's jurisdiction and
        irrevocably appoints the district clerk as its agent to receive
        service of any filings affecting its liability.
          (C) Motion to Enforce. The court may, upon the government's
        motion, enforce the surety's liability without an independent
        action. The government must serve any motion, and notice as the
        court prescribes, on the district clerk. If so served, the
        clerk must promptly mail a copy to the surety at its last known
        address.

        (4) Remission. After entering a judgment under Rule 46(f)(3),
      the court may remit in whole or in part the judgment under the
      same conditions specified in Rule 46(f)(2).

      (g) Exoneration. The court must exonerate the surety and release
    any bail when a bond condition has been satisfied or when the court
    has set aside or remitted the forfeiture. The court must exonerate
    a surety who deposits cash in the amount of the bond or timely
    surrenders the defendant into custody.
      (h) Supervising Detention Pending Trial.
        (1) In General. To eliminate unnecessary detention, the court
      must supervise the detention within the district of any
      defendants awaiting trial and of any persons held as material
      witnesses.
        (2) Reports. An attorney for the government must report
      biweekly to the court, listing each material witness held in
      custody for more than 10 days pending indictment, arraignment, or
      trial. For each material witness listed in the report, an
      attorney for the government must state why the witness should not
      be released with or without a deposition being taken under Rule
      15(a).

      (i) Forfeiture of Property. The court may dispose of a charged
    offense by ordering the forfeiture of 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3142(c)(1)(B)(xi) property under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3146(d), if a fine
    in the amount of the property's value would be an appropriate
    sentence for the charged offense.
      (j) Producing a Statement.
        (1) In General. Rule 26.2(a)-(d) and (f) applies at a detention
      hearing under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3142, unless the court for good
      cause rules otherwise.
        (2) Sanctions for Not Producing a Statement. If a party
      disobeys a Rule 26.2 order to produce a witness's statement, the
      court must not consider that witness's testimony at the detention
      hearing.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 9, 1956, eff. July 8, 1956; Feb. 28, 1966, eff.
    July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Pub. L. 98-473,
    title II, Sec. 209(d), Oct. 12, 1984, 98 Stat. 1987; Mar. 9, 1987,
    eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 30, 1991, eff. Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 22, 1993,
    eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Pub. L. 103-322, title XXXIII, Sec. 330003(h),
    Sept. 13, 1994, 108 Stat. 2141; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a)(1). This rule is substantially a
    restatement of existing law, 18 U.S.C. 596, 597 [now 3141].
      Note to Subdivision (a)(2). This rule is substantially a
    restatement of Rule 6 of Criminal Appeals Rules, with the addition
    of a reference to bail pending certiorari. This rule does not
    supersede 18 U.S.C. 682 [now 3731] (Appeals; on behalf of the
    United States; rules of practice and procedure), which provides for
    the admission of the defendant to bail on his own recognizance
    pending an appeal taken by the Government.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of existing law, 28 U.S.C. [former] 657.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule is a restatement of existing
    practice, and is based in part on 6 U.S.C. 15 [now 31 U.S.C. 9103]
    (Bonds or notes of United States in lieu of recognizance,
    stipulation, bond, guaranty, or undertaking; place of deposit;
    return to depositor; contractors' bonds).
      Note to Subdivision (e). This rule is similar to Sec. 79 of
    A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure introducing, however, an element
    of flexibility. Corporate sureties are regulated by 6 U.S.C. 6-14
    [now 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308].
      Note to Subdivision (f). 1. With the exception hereafter noted,
    this rule is substantially a restatement of existing law in
    somewhat greater detail than contained in 18 U.S.C. [former] 601
    (Remission of penalty of recognizance).
      2. Subdivision (f)(2) changes existing law in that it increases
    the discretion of the court to set aside a forfeiture. The present
    power of the court is limited to cases in which the defendant's
    default had not been willful.
      3. The second sentence of paragraph (3) is similar to Rule 73(f)
    of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. This
    paragraph also substitutes simple motion procedure for enforcing
    forfeited bail bonds for the procedure by scire facias, which was
    abolished by Rule 81(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
      Note to Subdivision (g). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law and practice. It is based in part on 18 U.S.C. 599 [now 3142]
    (Surrender by bail).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (c). - The more inclusive word "terms" is substituted
    for "amount" in view of the amendment to subdivision (d)
    authorizing releases without security on such conditions as are
    necessary to insure the appearance of the defendant. The phrase
    added at the end of this subdivision is designed to encourage
    commissioners and judges to set the terms of bail so as to
    eliminate unnecessary detention. See Stack v. Boyle, 342 U.S. 1
    (1951); Bandy v. United States, 81 S.Ct. 197 (1960); Bandy v.
    United States, 82 S.Ct. 11 (1961); Carbo v. United States, 82 S.Ct.
    662 (1962); review den. 369 U.S. 868 (1962).
      Subdivision (d). - The amendments are designed to make possible
    (and to encourage) the release on bail of a greater percentage of
    indigent defendants than now are released. To the extent that other
    considerations make it reasonably likely that the defendant will
    appear it is both good practice and good economics to release him
    on bail even though he cannot arrange for cash or bonds in even
    small amounts. In fact it has been suggested that it may be a
    denial of constitutional rights to hold indigent prisoners in
    custody for no other reason than their inability to raise the money
    for a bond. Bandy v. United States, 81 S.Ct. 197 (1960).
      The first change authorizes the acceptance as security of a
    deposit of cash or government securities in an amount less than the
    face amount of the bond. Since a defendant typically purchases a
    bail bond for a cash payment of a certain percentage of the face of
    the bond, a direct deposit with the court of that amount
    (returnable to the defendant upon his appearance) will often be
    equally adequate as a deterrent to flight. Cf. Ill.CodeCrim.Proc.
    Sec. 110-7 (1963).
      The second change authorizes the release of the defendant without
    financial security on his written agreement to appear when other
    deterrents appear reasonably adequate. See the discussion of such
    deterrents in Bandy v. United States, 81 S.Ct. 197 (1960). It also
    permits the imposition of nonfinancial conditions as the price of
    dispensing with security for the bond. Such conditions are commonly
    used in England. Devin, The Criminal Prosecution in England, 89
    (1958). See the suggestion in Note, Bail: An Ancient Practice
    Reexamined, 70 Yale L.J. 966, 975 (1961) that such conditions "* *
    * might include release in custody of a third party, such as the
    accused's employer, minister, attorney, or a private organization;
    release subject to a duty to report periodically to the court or
    other public official; or even release subject to a duty to return
    to jail each night." Willful failure to appear after forfeiture of
    bail is a separate criminal offense and hence an added deterrent to
    flight. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3146.
      For full discussion and general approval of the changes made here
    see Report of the Attorney General's Committee on Poverty and the
    Administration of Criminal Justice 58-89 (1963).
      Subdivision (h). - The purpose of this new subdivision is to
    place upon the court in each district the responsibility for
    supervising the detention of defendants and witnesses and for
    eliminating all unnecessary detention. The device of the report by
    the attorney for the government is used because in many districts
    defendants will be held in custody in places where the court sits
    only at infrequent intervals and hence they cannot be brought
    personally before the court without substantial delay. The
    magnitude of the problem is suggested by the facts that during the
    fiscal year ending June 30, 1960, there were 23,811 instances in
    which persons were held in custody pending trial and that the
    average length of detention prior to disposition (i.e., dismissal,
    acquittal, probation, sentence to imprisonment, or any other method
    of removing the case from the court docket) was 25.3 days. Federal
    Prisons 1960, table 22, p. 60. Since 27,645 of the 38,855
    defendants whose cases were terminated during the fiscal year
    ending June 30, 1960, pleaded guilty (United States Attorneys
    Statistical Report, October 1960, p. 1 and table 2), it would
    appear that the greater part of the detention reported occurs prior
    to the initial appearance of the defendant before the court.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are intended primarily to bring rule 46 into
    general conformity with the Bail Reform Act of 1966 and to deal in
    the rule with some issues not now included within the rule.
      Subdivision (a) makes explicit that the Bail Reform Act of 1966
    controls release on bail prior to trial. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3146 refers
    to release of a defendant. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3149 refers to release of
    a material witness.
      Subdivision (b) deals with an issue not dealt with by the Bail
    Reform Act of 1966 or explicitly in former rule 46, that is, the
    issue of bail during trial. The rule gives the trial judge
    discretion to continue the prior conditions of release or to impose
    such additional conditions as are adequate to insure presence at
    trial or to insure that his conduct will not obstruct the orderly
    and expeditious progress of the trial.
      Subdivision (c) provides for release during the period between a
    conviction and sentencing and for the giving of a notice of appeal
    or of the expiration of the time allowed for filing notice of
    appeal. There are situations in which defense counsel may
    informally indicate an intention to appeal but not actually give
    notice of appeal for several days. To deal with this situation the
    rule makes clear that the district court has authority to release
    under the terms of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3148 pending notice of appeal
    (e.g., during the ten days after entry of judgment; see rule 4(b)
    of the Rules of Appellate Procedure). After the filing of notice of
    appeal, release by the district court shall be in accordance with
    the provisions of rule 9(b) of the Rules of Appellate Procedure.
    The burden of establishing that grounds for release exist is placed
    upon the defendant in the view that the fact of conviction
    justifies retention in custody in situations where doubt exists as
    to whether a defendant can be safely released pending either
    sentence or the giving of notice of appeal.
      Subdivisions (d), (e), (f), and (g) remain unchanged. They were
    formerly lettered (e), (f), (g), and (h).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The addition of subdivision (i) is one of a series of similar
    amendments to Rules 26.2, 32, 32.1, and Rule 8 of the Rules
    Governing Proceedings Under 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2255 which extend Rule
    26.2 to other proceedings and hearings. As pointed out in the
    Committee Note to the amendment to Rule 26.2, there is continuing
    and compelling need to assess the credibility and reliability of
    information relied upon by the court, whether the witness's
    testimony is being considered at a pretrial proceeding, at trial,
    or a post-trial proceeding. Production of a witness's prior
    statements directly furthers that goal.
      The need for reliable information is no less crucial in a
    proceeding to determine whether a defendant should be released from
    custody. The issues decided at pretrial detention hearings are
    important to both a defendant and the community. For example, a
    defendant charged with criminal acts may be incarcerated prior to
    an adjudication of guilt without bail on grounds of future
    dangerousness which is not subject to proof beyond a reasonable
    doubt. Although the defendant clearly has an interest in remaining
    free prior to trial, the community has an equally compelling
    interest in being protected from potential criminal activity
    committed by persons awaiting trial.
      In upholding the constitutionality of pretrial detention based
    upon dangerousness, the Supreme Court in United States v. Salerno,
    481 U.S. 739 (1986), stressed the existence of procedural
    safeguards in the Bail Reform Act. The Act provides for the right
    to counsel and the right to cross-examine adverse witnesses. See,
    e.g., 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3142(f) (right of defendant to cross-examine
    adverse witness). Those safeguards, said the Court, are
    "specifically designed to further the accuracy of that
    determination." 481 U.S. at 751. The Committee believes that
    requiring the production of a witness's statement will further
    enhance the fact-finding process.
      The Committee recognized that pretrial detention hearings are
    often held very early in a prosecution, and that a particular
    witness's statement may not yet be on file, or even known about.
    Thus, the amendment recognizes that in a particular case, the court
    may decide that good cause exists for not applying the rule.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 46 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Although the general rule is that an appeal to a circuit court
    deprives the district court of jurisdiction, Rule 46(c) recognizes
    the apparent exception to that rule - that the district court
    retains jurisdiction to decide whether the defendant should be
    detained, even if a notice of appeal has been filed. See, e.g.,
    United States v. Meyers, 95 F.3d 1475 (10th Cir. 1996), cert.
    denied, 522 U.S. 1006 (1997) (initial decision of whether to
    release defendant pending appeal is to be made by district court);
    United States v. Affleck, 765 F.2d 944 (10th Cir. 1985); Jago v.
    United States District Court, 570 F.2d 618 (6th Cir. 1978) (release
    of defendant pending appeal must first be sought in district
    court). See also Federal Rule of Appellate Procedure 9(b) and the
    accompanying Committee Note.
      Revised Rule 46(h) deletes the requirement that the attorney for
    the government file bi-weekly reports with the court concerning the
    status of any defendants in pretrial detention. The Committee
    believed that the requirement was no longer necessary in light of
    the Speedy Trial Act provisions. 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3161, et seq. On
    the other hand, the requirement that the attorney for the
    government file reports regarding detained material witnesses has
    been retained in the rule.
      Rule 46(i) addresses the ability of a court to order forfeiture
    of property where a defendant has failed to appear as required by
    the court. The language in the current rule, Rule 46(h), was
    originally included by Congress. The new language has been restyled
    with no change in substance or practice intended. Under this
    provision, the court may only forfeit property as permitted under
    18 U.S.C. Secs. 3146(d) and 3142(c)(1)(B)(xi). The term
    "appropriate sentence" means a sentence that is consistent with the
    Sentencing Guidelines.

                          AMENDMENT BY PUBLIC LAW                      
      1994 - Subd. (i)(1). Pub. L. 103-322 substituted "3142" for
    "3144".
      1984 - Subd. (a). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 209(d)(1), substituted
    "Secs. 3142 and 3144" for "Sec. 3146, Sec. 3148, or Sec. 3149".
      Subd. (c). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 209(d)(2), substituted "3143" for
    "3148".
      Subd. (e)(2). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 209(d)(3), substituted "be set
    aside in whole or in part upon such conditions as the court may
    impose, if a person released upon execution of an appearance bond
    with a surety is subsequently surrendered by the surety into
    custody or if it otherwise appears that justice does not require
    the forfeiture" for "set aside, upon such conditions as the court
    may impose, if it appears that justice does not require the
    enforcement of the forfeiture".
      Subd. (h). Pub. L. 98-473, Sec. 209(d)(4), added subd. (h).

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1956 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment by Order of April 9, 1956, became effective 90 days
    thereafter.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 47                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 47. Motions and Supporting Affidavits

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. A party applying to the court for an order must
    do so by motion.
      (b) Form and Content of a Motion. A motion - except when made
    during a trial or hearing - must be in writing, unless the court
    permits the party to make the motion by other means. A motion must
    state the grounds on which it is based and the relief or order
    sought. A motion may be supported by affidavit.
      (c) Timing of a Motion. A party must serve a written motion -
    other than one that the court may hear ex parte - and any hearing
    notice at least 7 days before the hearing date, unless a rule or
    court order sets a different period. For good cause, the court may
    set a different period upon ex parte application.
      (d) Affidavit Supporting a Motion. The moving party must serve
    any supporting affidavit with the motion. A responding party must
    serve any opposing affidavit at least one day before the hearing,
    unless the court permits later service.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Mar. 26, 2009, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule is substantially the same as the corresponding civil
    rule (first sentence of Rule 7(b)(1), Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure) [28 U.S.C., Appendix], except that it authorizes the
    court to permit motions to be made orally and does not require that
    the grounds upon which a motion is made shall be stated "with
    particularity," as is the case with the civil rule.
      2. This rule is intended to state general requirements for all
    motions. For particular provisions applying to specific motions,
    see Rules 6(b)(2), 12, 14, 15, 16, 17(b) and (c), 21, 22, 29 and
    Rule 41(e). See also Rule 49.
      3. The last sentence providing that a motion may be supported by
    affidavit is not intended to permit "speaking motions" (e.g. motion
    to dismiss an indictment for insufficiency supported by
    affidavits), but to authorize the use of affidavits when affidavits
    are appropriate to establish a fact (e.g. authority to take a
    deposition or former jeopardy).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 47 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      In Rule 47(b), the word "orally" has been deleted. The Committee
    believed, first, that the term should not act as a limitation on
    those who are not able to speak orally and, second, a court may
    wish to entertain motions through electronic or other reliable
    means. Deletion of the term also comports with a similar change in
    Rule 26, regarding the taking of testimony during trial. In place
    of that word, the Committee substituted the broader phrase "by
    other means."

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The time set in the former rule at 5 days, which excluded
    intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, has been
    expanded to 7 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 48                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 48. Dismissal

-STATUTE-
      (a) By the Government. The government may, with leave of court,
    dismiss an indictment, information, or complaint. The government
    may not dismiss the prosecution during trial without the
    defendant's consent.
      (b) By the Court. The court may dismiss an indictment,
    information, or complaint if unnecessary delay occurs in:
        (1) presenting a charge to a grand jury;
        (2) filing an information against a defendant; or
        (3) bringing a defendant to trial.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). 1. The first sentence of this rule will
    change existing law. The common-law rule that the public prosecutor
    may enter a nolle prosequi in his discretion, without any action by
    the court, prevails in the Federal courts, Confiscation Cases, 7
    Wall. 454, 457; United States v. Woody, 2 F.2d 262 (D.Mont.). This
    provision will permit the filing of a nolle prosequi only by leave
    of court. This is similar to the rule now prevailing in many
    States. A.L.I. Code of Criminal Procedure, Commentaries, pp. 895-
    897.
      2. The rule confers the power to file a dismissal by leave of
    court on the Attorney General, as well as on the United States
    attorney, since under existing law the Attorney General exercises
    "general superintendence and direction" over the United States
    attorneys "as to the manner of discharging their respective
    duties," 5 U.S.C. 317 [now 28 U.S.C. 509, 547]. Moreover it is the
    administrative practice for the Attorney General to supervise the
    filing of a nolle prosequi by United States attorneys. Consequently
    it seemed appropriate that the Attorney General should have such
    power directly.
      3. The rule permits the filing of a dismissal of an indictment,
    information or complaint. The word "complaint" was included in
    order to resolve a doubt prevailing in some districts as to whether
    the United States attorney may file a nolle prosequi between the
    time when the defendant is bound over by the United States
    commissioner and the finding of an indictment. It has been assumed
    in a few districts that the power does not exist and that the
    United States attorney must await action of the grand jury, even if
    he deems it proper to dismiss the prosecution. This situation is an
    unnecessary hardship to some defendants.
      4. The second sentence is a restatement of existing law,
    Confiscation Cases, 7 Wall. 454-457; United States v. Shoemaker, 27
    Fed. Cases No. 16, 279 (C.C.Ill.). If the trial has commenced, the
    defendant has a right to insist on a disposition on the merits and
    may properly object to the entry of a nolle prosequi.
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is a restatement of the
    inherent power of the court to dismiss a case for want of
    prosecution. Ex parte Altman, 34 F.Supp. 106 (S.D.Cal.).

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 48 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The Committee considered the relationship between Rule 48(b) and
    the Speedy Trial Act. See 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3161, et seq. Rule 48(b),
    of course, operates independently from the Act. See, e.g., United
    States v. Goodson, 204 F.3d 508 (4th Cir. 2000) (noting purpose of
    Rule 48(b)); United States v. Carlone, 666 F.2d 1112, 1116 (7th
    Cir. 1981) (suggesting that Rule 48(b) could provide an alternate
    basis in an extreme case to dismiss an indictment, without
    reference to Speedy Trial Act); United States v. Balochi, 527 F.2d
    562, 563-64 (4th Cir. 1976) (per curiam) (Rule 48(b) is broader in
    compass). In re-promulgating Rule 48(b), the Committee intends no
    change in the relationship between that rule and the Speedy Trial
    Act.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 49                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 49. Serving and Filing Papers

-STATUTE-
      (a) When Required. A party must serve on every other party any
    written motion (other than one to be heard ex parte), written
    notice, designation of the record on appeal, or similar paper.
      (b) How Made. Service must be made in the manner provided for a
    civil action. When these rules or a court order requires or permits
    service on a party represented by an attorney, service must be made
    on the attorney instead of the party, unless the court orders
    otherwise.
      (c) Notice of a Court Order. When the court issues an order on
    any post-arraignment motion, the clerk must provide notice in a
    manner provided for in a civil action. Except as Federal Rule of
    Appellate Procedure 4(b) provides otherwise, the clerk's failure to
    give notice does not affect the time to appeal, or relieve - or
    authorize the court to relieve - a party's failure to appeal within
    the allowed time.
      (d) Filing. A party must file with the court a copy of any paper
    the party is required to serve. A paper must be filed in a manner
    provided for in a civil action.
      (e) Electronic Service and Filing. A court may, by local rule,
    allow papers to be filed, signed, or verified by electronic means
    that are consistent with any technical standards established by the
    Judicial Conference of the United States. A local rule may require
    electronic filing only if reasonable exceptions are allowed. A
    paper filed electronically in compliance with a local rule is
    written or in writing under these rules.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Feb. 28, 1966, eff. July 1, 1966; Dec. 4, 1967, eff.
    July 1, 1968; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Mar. 9, 1987, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 27, 1995, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1995; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 26, 2011, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2011.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 5(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix] with such adaptations as are necessary for criminal
    cases.
      Note to Subdivision (b). The first sentence of this rule is in
    substance the same as the first sentence of Rule 5(b) of the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. The second
    sentence incorporates by reference the second and third sentences
    of Rule 5(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
      Note to Subdivision (c). This rule is an adaptation for criminal
    proceedings of Rule 77(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
    [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. No consequence attaches to the failure of
    the clerk to give the prescribed notice, but in a case in which the
    losing party in reliance on the clerk's obligation to send a notice
    failed to file a timely notice of appeal, it was held competent for
    the trial judge, in the exercise of sound discretion, to vacate the
    judgment because of clerk's failure to give notice and to enter a
    new judgment, the term of court not having expired. Hill v. Hawes,
    320 U.S. 520.
      Note to Subdivision (d). This rule incorporates by reference Rule
    5(d) and (e) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix].

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). - The words "adverse parties" in the original
    rule introduced a question of interpretation. When, for example, is
    a co-defendant an adverse party? The amendment requires service on
    each of the parties thus avoiding the problem of interpretation and
    promoting full exchange of information among the parties. No
    restriction is intended, however, upon agreements among co-
    defendants or between the defendants and the government
    restricting exchange of papers in the interest of eliminating
    unnecessary expense. Cf. the amendment made effective July 1, 1963,
    to Civil Rule 5(a).
      Subdivision (c). - The words "affected thereby" are deleted in
    order to require notice to all parties. Cf. the similar change made
    effective July 1, 1963, to Civil Rule 77(d).
      The sentence added at the end of the subdivision eliminates the
    possibility of extension of the time to appeal beyond the provision
    for a 30 day extension on a showing or "excusable neglect" provided
    in Rule 37(a)(2). Cf. the similar change made in Civil Rule 77(d)
    effective in 1948. The question has arisen in a number of cases
    whether failure or delay in giving notice on the part of the clerk
    results in an extension of the time for appeal. The "general rule"
    has been said to be that in the event of such failure or delay "the
    time for taking an appeal runs from the date of later actual notice
    or receipt of the clerk's notice rather than from the date of entry
    of the order." Lohman v. United States, 237 F.2d 645, 646 (6th Cir.
    1956). See also Rosenbloom v. United States, 355 U.S. 80 (1957)
    (permitting an extension). In two cases it has been held that no
    extension results from the failure to give notice of entry of
    judgments (as opposed to orders) since such notice is not required
    by Rule 49(d). Wilkinson v. United States, 278 F.2d 604 (10th Cir.
    1960), cert. den. 363 U.S. 829; Hyche v. United States, 278 F.2d
    915 (5th Cir. 1960), cert. den. 364 U.S. 881. The excusable neglect
    extension provision in Rule 37(a)(2) will cover most cases where
    failure of the clerk to give notice of judgments or orders has
    misled the defendant. No need appears for an indefinite extension
    without time limit beyond the 30 day period.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1968 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment corrects the reference to Rule 37(a)(2), the
    pertinent provisions of which are contained in Rule 4(b) of the
    Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      18 U.S.C. Sec. 3575(a) and 21 U.S.C. Sec. 849(a), dealing
    respectively with dangerous special offender sentencing and
    dangerous special drug offender sentencing, provide for the
    prosecutor to file notice of such status "with the court" and for
    the court to "order the notice sealed" under specified
    circumstances, but also declare that disclosure of this notice
    shall not be made "to the presiding judge without the consent of
    the parties" before verdict or plea of guilty or nolo contendere.
    It has been noted that these provisions are "regrettably unclear as
    to where, in fact, such notice is to be filed" and that possibly
    filing with the chief judge is contemplated. United States v.
    Tramunti, 377 F.Supp. 6 (S.D.N.Y. 1974). But such practice has been
    a matter of dispute when the chief judge would otherwise have been
    the presiding judge in the case, United States v. Gaylor, No. 80-
    5016 (4th Cir. 1981), and "it does not solve the problem in those
    districts where there is only one federal district judge
    appointed," United States v. Tramunti, supra.
      The first sentence of subdivision (e) clarifies that the filing
    of such notice with the court is to be accomplished by filing with
    the clerk of the court, which is generally the procedure for filing
    with the court; see subdivision (d) of this rule. Except in a
    district having a single judge and no United States magistrate, the
    clerk will then, as provided in the second sentence, transmit the
    notice to the chief judge or to some other judge or a United States
    magistrate if the chief judge is scheduled to be the presiding
    judge in the case, so that the determination regarding sealing of
    the notice may be made without the disclosure prohibited by the
    aforementioned statutes. But in a district having a single judge
    and no United States magistrate this prohibition means the clerk
    may not disclose the notice to the court at all until the time
    specified by statute. The last sentence of subdivision (e)
    contemplates that in such instances the clerk will seal the notice
    if the case falls within the local rule describing when "a public
    record may prejudice fair consideration of a pending criminal
    matter," the determination called for by the aforementioned
    statutes. The local rule might provide, for example, that the
    notice is to be sealed upon motion by any party.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1995 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (e) has been deleted because both of the statutory
    provisions cited in the rule have been abrogated.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 49 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
      Rule 49(c) has been amended to reflect proposed changes in the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure that permit (but do not require) a
    court to provide notice of its orders and judgments through
    electronic means. See Federal Rules of Civil Procedure 5(b) and
    77(d). As amended, Rule 49(c) now parallels a similar extant
    provision in Rule 49(b), regarding service of papers.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2011 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (e). Filing papers by electronic means is added as
    new subdivision (e), which is drawn from Civil Rule 5(d)(3). It
    makes it clear that a paper filed electronically in compliance with
    the Court's local rule is a written paper.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made in the rule as published.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, referred to in subd.
    (c), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 49.1                                   01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 49.1. Privacy Protection For Filings Made with the Court

-STATUTE-
      (a) Redacted Filings. Unless the court orders otherwise, in an
    electronic or paper filing with the court that contains an
    individual's social-security number, taxpayer-identification
    number, or birth date, the name of an individual known to be a
    minor, a financial-account number, or the home address of an
    individual, a party or nonparty making the filing may include only:
        (1) the last four digits of the social-security number and
      taxpayer-identification number;
        (2) the year of the individual's birth;
        (3) the minor's initials;
        (4) the last four digits of the financial-account number; and
        (5) the city and state of the home address.

      (b) Exemptions from the Redaction Requirement. The redaction
    requirement does not apply to the following:
        (1) a financial-account number or real property address that
      identifies the property allegedly subject to forfeiture in a
      forfeiture proceeding;
        (2) the record of an administrative or agency proceeding;
        (3) the official record of a state-court proceeding;
        (4) the record of a court or tribunal, if that record was not
      subject to the redaction requirement when originally filed;
        (5) a filing covered by Rule 49.1(d);
        (6) a pro se filing in an action brought under 28 U.S.C. Secs.
      2241,(!1) 2254, or 2255;

        (7) a court filing that is related to a criminal matter or
      investigation and that is prepared before the filing of a
      criminal charge or is not filed as part of any docketed criminal
      case;
        (8) an arrest or search warrant; and
        (9) a charging document and an affidavit filed in support of
      any charging document.

      (c) Immigration Cases. A filing in an action brought under 28
    U.S.C. Sec. 2241 that relates to the petitioner's immigration
    rights is governed by Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 5.2.
      (d) Filings Made Under Seal. The court may order that a filing be
    made under seal without redaction. The court may later unseal the
    filing or order the person who made the filing to file a redacted
    version for the public record.
      (e) Protective Orders. For good cause, the court may by order in
    a case:
        (1) require redaction of additional information; or
        (2) limit or prohibit a nonparty's remote electronic access to
      a document filed with the court.

      (f) Option for Additional Unredacted Filing Under Seal. A person
    making a redacted filing may also file an unredacted copy under
    seal. The court must retain the unredacted copy as part of the
    record.
      (g) Option for Filing a Reference List. A filing that contains
    redacted information may be filed together with a reference list
    that identifies each item of redacted information and specifies an
    appropriate identifier that uniquely corresponds to each item
    listed. The list must be filed under seal and may be amended as of
    right. Any reference in the case to a listed identifier will be
    construed to refer to the corresponding item of information.
      (h) Waiver of Protection of Identifiers. A person waives the
    protection of Rule 49.1(a) as to the person's own information by
    filing it without redaction and not under seal.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 30, 2007, eff. Dec. 1, 2007.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2007                  
      The rule is adopted in compliance with section 205(c)(3) of the E-
    Government Act of 2002, Public Law No. 107-347. Section 205(c)(3)
    requires the Supreme Court to prescribe rules "to protect privacy
    and security concerns relating to electronic filing of documents
    and the public availability . . . of documents filed
    electronically." The rule goes further than the E-Government Act in
    regulating paper filings even when they are not converted to
    electronic form. But the number of filings that remain in paper
    form is certain to diminish over time. Most districts scan paper
    filings into the electronic case file, where they become available
    to the public in the same way as documents initially filed in
    electronic form. It is electronic availability, not the form of the
    initial filing, that raises the privacy and security concerns
    addressed in the E-Government Act.
      The rule is derived from and implements the policy adopted by the
    Judicial Conference in September 2001 to address the privacy
    concerns resulting from public access to electronic case files. See
    http://www.privacy.uscourts.gov/Policy.htm. The Judicial Conference
    policy is that documents in case files generally should be made
    available electronically to the same extent they are available at
    the courthouse, provided that certain "personal data identifiers"
    are not included in the public file.
      While providing for the public filing of some information, such
    as the last four digits of an account number, the rule does not
    intend to establish a presumption that this information never could
    or should be protected. For example, it may well be necessary in
    individual cases to prevent remote access by nonparties to any part
    of an account number or social security number. It may also be
    necessary to protect information not covered by the redaction
    requirement - such as driver's license numbers and alien
    registration numbers - in a particular case. In such cases,
    protection may be sought under subdivision (d) or (e). Moreover,
    the Rule does not affect the protection available under other
    rules, such as Criminal Rule 16(d) and Civil Rules 16 and 26(c), or
    under other sources of protective authority.
      Parties must remember that any personal information not otherwise
    protected by sealing or redaction will be made available over the
    internet. Counsel should notify clients of this fact so that an
    informed decision may be made on what information is to be included
    in a document filed with the court.
      The clerk is not required to review documents filed with the
    court for compliance with this rule. The responsibility to redact
    filings rests with counsel and the party or nonparty making the
    filing.
      Subdivision (e) provides that the court can order in a particular
    case more extensive redaction than otherwise required by the Rule,
    where necessary to protect against disclosure to nonparties of
    sensitive or private information. Nothing in this subdivision is
    intended to affect the limitations on sealing that are otherwise
    applicable to the court.
      Subdivision (f) allows a person who makes a redacted filing to
    file an unredacted document under seal. This provision is derived
    from section 205(c)(3)(iv) of the E-Government Act. Subdivision (g)
    allows the option to file a register of redacted information. This
    provision is derived from section 205(c)(3)(v) of the E-Government
    Act, as amended in 2004.
      In accordance with the E-Government Act, subdivision (f) of the
    rule refers to "redacted" information. The term "redacted" is
    intended to govern a filing that is prepared with abbreviated
    identifiers in the first instance, as well as a filing in which a
    personal identifier is edited after its preparation.
      Subdivision (h) allows a person to waive the protections of the
    rule as to that person's own personal information by filing it
    unsealed and in unredacted form. One may wish to waive the
    protection if it is determined that the costs of redaction outweigh
    the benefits to privacy. If a person files an unredacted identifier
    by mistake, that person may seek relief from the court.
      Trial exhibits are subject to the redaction requirements of Rule
    49.1 to the extent they are filed with the court. Trial exhibits
    that are not initially filed with the court must be redacted in
    accordance with the rule if and when they are filed as part of an
    appeal or for other reasons.
      The Judicial Conference Committee on Court Administration and
    Case Management has issued "Guidance for Implementation of the
    Judicial Conference Policy on Privacy and Public Access to
    Electronic Criminal Case Files" (March 2004). This document sets
    out limitations on remote electronic access to certain sensitive
    materials in criminal cases. It provides in part as follows:
        The following documents shall not be included in the public
      case file and should not be made available to the public at the
      courthouse or via remote electronic access:
          -- unexecuted summonses or warrants of any kind (e.g., search
        warrants, arrest warrants);
          -- pretrial bail or presentence investigation reports;
          -- statements of reasons in the judgment of conviction;
          -- juvenile records;
          -- documents containing identifying information about jurors
        or potential jurors;
          -- financial affidavits filed in seeking representation
        pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act;
          -- ex parte requests for authorization of investigative,
        expert or other services pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act;
        and
          -- sealed documents (e.g., motions for downward departure for
        substantial assistance, plea agreements indicating
        cooperation).
    To the extent that the Rule does not exempt these materials from
    disclosure, the privacy and law enforcement concerns implicated by
    the above documents in criminal cases can be accommodated under the
    rule through the sealing provision of subdivision (d) or a
    protective order provision of subdivision (e).
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    Numerous changes were made in the rule after publication in
    response to the public comments as well as continued consultation
    among the reporters and chairs of the advisory committees as each
    committee reviewed its own rule.
      A number of revisions were made in all of the e-government rules.
    These include: (1) using of the term "individual" rather than
    "person" where possible, (2) clarifying that the responsibility for
    redaction lies with the person making the filing, (3) rewording the
    exemption from redaction for information necessary to identify
    property subject to forfeiture, so that it is clearly applicable in
    ancillary proceedings related to forfeiture, and (4) rewording the
    exemption from redaction for judicial decisions that were not
    subject to redaction when originally filed. Additionally, some
    changes of a technical or stylistic nature (involving matters such
    as hyphenation and the use of "a" or "the") were made to achieve
    clarity as well as consistency among the various e-government
    rules.
      Two changes were made to the provisions concerning actions under
    Secs. 2241, 2254, and 2255, which the published rule exempted from
    the redaction requirement. First, in response to criticism that the
    original exemption was unduly broad, the Committee limited the
    exemption to pro se filings in these actions. Second, a new
    subdivision (c) was added to provide that all actions under Sec.
    2241 in which immigration claims were made would be governed
    exclusively by Civil Rule 5.2. This change (which was made after
    the Advisory Committee meeting) was deemed necessary to ensure
    consistency in the treatment of redaction and public access to
    records in immigration cases. The addition of the new subdivision
    required renumbering of the subdivisions designated as (c) to (g)
    at the time of publication.
      The provision governing protective orders was revised to employ
    the flexible "cause shown" standard that governs protective orders
    under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
      Finally, language was added to the Note clarifying the impact of
    the CACM policy that is reprinted in the Note: if the materials
    enumerated in the CACM policy are not exempt from disclosure under
    the rule, the sealing and protective order provisions of the rule
    are applicable.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, referred to in subd. (c),
    are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial
    Procedure.

-FOOTNOTE-
    (!1) So in original. Probably should be only one section symbol.


-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 50                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 50. Prompt Disposition

-STATUTE-
      Scheduling preference must be given to criminal proceedings as
    far as practicable.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Mar. 18, 1974, eff.
    July 1, 1974; Apr. 26 and July 8, 1976, eff. Aug. 1, 1976; Apr. 22,
    1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is a restatement of the inherent residual power of the
    court over its own calendars, although as a matter of practice in
    most districts the assignment of criminal cases for trial is
    handled by the United States attorney. Cf. Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure, Rules 40 and 78 [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. The direction
    that preference shall be given to criminal proceedings as far as
    practicable is generally recognized as desirable in the orderly
    administration of justice.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1972 AMENDMENT       
      The addition to the rule proposed by subdivision (b) is designed
    to achieve the more prompt disposition of criminal cases.
      Preventing undue delay in the administration of criminal justice
    has become an object of increasing interest and concern. This is
    reflected in the Congress. See, e.g., 116 Cong.Rec. S7291-97 (daily
    ed. May 18, 1970) (remarks of Senator Ervin). Bills have been
    introduced fixing specific time limits. See S. 3936, H.R. 14822,
    H.R. 15888, 91st Cong., 2d Sess. (1970).
      Proposals for dealing with the problem of delay have also been
    made by the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and
    Administration of Justice, Task Force Report: The Courts (1967)
    especially pp. 84-90, and by the American Bar Association Project
    on Standards for Criminal Justice, Standards Relating to Speedy
    Trial (Approved Draft, 1968). Both recommend specific time limits
    for each stage in the criminal process as the most effective way of
    achieving prompt disposition of criminal cases. See also Note,
    Nevada's 1967 Criminal Procedure Law from Arrest to Trial: One
    State's Response to a Widely Recognized Need, 1969 Utah L.Rev. 520,
    542 no. 114.
      Historically, the right to a speedy trial has been thought of as
    a protection for the defendant. Delay can cause a hardship to a
    defendant who is in custody awaiting trial. Even if afforded the
    opportunity for pretrial release, a defendant nonetheless is likely
    to suffer anxiety during a period of unwanted delay, and he runs
    the risk that his memory and those of his witnesses may suffer as
    time goes on.
      Delay can also adversely affect the prosecution. Witnesses may
    lose interest or disappear or their memories may fade thus making
    them more vulnerable to cross-examination. See Note, The Right to a
    Speedy Criminal Trial, 57 Colum.L.Rev. 846 (1957).
      There is also a larger public interest in the prompt disposition
    of criminal cases which may transcend the interest of the
    particular prosecutor, defense counsel, and defendant. Thus there
    is need to try to expedite criminal cases even when both
    prosecution and defense may be willing to agree to a continuance or
    continuances. It has long been said that it is the certain and
    prompt imposition of a criminal sanction rather than its severity
    that has a significant deterring effect upon potential criminal
    conduct. See Banfield and Anderson, Continuances in the Cook County
    Criminal Courts, 35 U.Chi.L.Rev. 259, 259-63 (1968).
      Providing specific time limits for each stage of the criminal
    justice system is made difficult, particularly in federal courts,
    by the widely varying conditions which exist between the very busy
    urban districts on the one hand and the far less busy rural
    districts on the other hand. In the former, account must be taken
    of the extremely heavy caseload, and the prescription of relatively
    short time limits is realistic only if there is provided additional
    prosecutorial and judicial manpower. In some rural districts, the
    availability of a grand jury only twice a year makes unrealistic
    the provision of short time limits within which an indictment must
    be returned. This is not to say that prompt disposition of criminal
    cases cannot be achieved. It means only that the achieving of
    prompt disposition may require solutions which vary from district
    to district. Finding the best methods will require innovation and
    experimentation. To encourage this, the proposed draft mandates
    each district court to prepare a plan to achieve the prompt
    disposition of criminal cases in the district. The method
    prescribed for the development and approval of the district plans
    is comparable to that prescribed in the Jury Selection and Service
    Act of 1968, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1863(a).
      Each plan shall include rules which specify time limits and a
    means for reporting the status of criminal cases. The appropriate
    length of the time limits is left to the discretion of the
    individual district courts. This permits each district court to
    establish time limits that are appropriate in light of its criminal
    caseload, frequency of grand jury meetings, and any other factors
    which affect the progress of criminal actions. Where local
    conditions exist which contribute to delay, it is contemplated that
    appropriate efforts will be made to eliminate those conditions. For
    example, experience in some rural districts demonstrates that grand
    juries can be kept on call thus eliminating the grand jury as a
    cause for prolonged delay. Where manpower shortage is a major cause
    for delay, adequate solutions will require congressional action.
    But the development and analysis of the district plans should
    disclose where manpower shortages exist; how large the shortages
    are; and what is needed, in the way of additional manpower, to
    achieve the prompt disposition of criminal cases.
      The district court plans must contain special provision for
    prompt disposition of cases in which there is reason to believe
    that the pretrial liberty of a defendant poses danger to himself,
    to any other person, or to the community. Prompt disposition of
    criminal cases may provide an alternative to the pretrial detention
    of potentially dangerous defendants. See 116 Cong.Rec. S7291-97
    (daily ed. May 18, 1970) (remarks of Senator Ervin). Prompt
    disposition of criminal cases in which the defendant is held in
    pretrial detention would ensure that the deprivation of liberty
    prior to conviction would be minimized.
      Approval of the original plan and any subsequent modification
    must be obtained from a reviewing panel made up of one judge from
    the district submitting the plan (either the chief judge or another
    active judge appointed by him) and the members of the judicial
    council of the circuit. The makeup of this reviewing panel is the
    same as that provided by the Jury Selection and Service Act of
    1968, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 1863(a). This reviewing panel is also
    empowered to direct the modification of a district court plan.
      The Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit recently
    adopted a set of rules for the prompt disposition of criminal
    cases. See 8 Cr.L. 2251 (Jan. 13, 1971). These rules, effective
    July 5, 1971, provide time limits for the early trial of high risk
    defendants, for court control over the granting of continuances,
    for criteria to control continuance practice, and for sanction
    against the prosecution or defense in the event of noncompliance
    with prescribed time limits.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1974 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment designates the first paragraph of Rule 50 as
    subdivision (a) entitled "Calendars," in view of the recent
    addition of subdivision (b) to the rule.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1976 AMENDMENT       
      This amendment to rule 50(b) takes account of the enactment of
    The Speedy Trial Act of 1974, 18 U.S.C. Secs. 3152-3156, 3161-3174.
    As the various provisions of the Act take effect, see 18 U.S.C.
    Sec. 3163, they and the district plans adopted pursuant thereto
    will supplant the plans heretofore adopted under rule 50(b). The
    first such plan must be prepared and submitted by each district
    court before July 1, 1976. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3165(e)(1).
      That part of rule 50(b) which sets out the necessary contents of
    district plans has been deleted, as the somewhat different contents
    of the plans required by the Act are enumerated in 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3166. That part of rule 50(b) which describes the manner in which
    district plans are to be submitted, reviewed, modified and reported
    upon has also been deleted, for these provisions now appear in 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3165(c) and (d).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 50 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      The first sentence in current Rule 50(a), which says that a court
    may place criminal proceedings on a calendar, has been deleted. The
    Committee believed that the sentence simply stated a truism and was
    no longer necessary.
      Current Rule 50(b), which simply mirrors 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3165, has
    been deleted in its entirety. The rule was added in 1971 to meet
    congressional concerns in pending legislation about deadlines in
    criminal cases. Provisions governing deadlines were later enacted
    by Congress and protections were provided in the Speedy Trial Act.
    The Committee concluded that in light of those enactments, Rule
    50(b) was no longer necessary.

                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1976 AMENDMENT                 
      Amendment of subd. (b) by the order of the United States Supreme
    Court of Apr. 26, 1976, effective Aug. 1, 1976, see section 1 of
    Pub. L. 94-349, July 8, 1976, 90 Stat. 822, set out as a note under
    section 2074 of Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 51                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 51. Preserving Claimed Error

-STATUTE-
      (a) Exceptions Unnecessary. Exceptions to rulings or orders of
    the court are unnecessary.
      (b) Preserving a Claim of Error. A party may preserve a claim of
    error by informing the court - when the court ruling or order is
    made or sought - of the action the party wishes the court to take,
    or the party's objection to the court's action and the grounds for
    that objection. If a party does not have an opportunity to object
    to a ruling or order, the absence of an objection does not later
    prejudice that party. A ruling or order that admits or excludes
    evidence is governed by Federal Rule of Evidence 103.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Mar. 9, 1987, eff. Aug. 1, 1987; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. This rule is practically identical with Rule 46 of the Federal
    Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix]. It relates to a
    matter of trial practice which should be the same in civil and
    criminal cases in the interest of avoiding confusion. The
    corresponding civil rule has been construed in Ulm v. Moore-
    McCormack Lines, Inc., 115 F.2d 492 (C.C.A. 2d), and Bucy v.
    Nevada Construction Company, 125 F.2d 213, 218 (C.C.A. 9th). See,
    also, Orfield, 22 Texas L.R. 194, 221. As to the method of taking
    objections to instructions to the jury, see Rule 30.
      2. Many States have abolished the use of exceptions in criminal
    and civil cases. See, e.g., Cal.Pen. Code (Deering, 1941), sec.
    1259; Mich.Stat.Ann. (Henderson, 1938), secs. 28.1046, 28.1053;
    Ohio Gen Code Ann. (Page, 1938), secs. 11560, 13442-7; Oreg.Comp.
    Laws Ann. (1940), secs. 5-704, 26-1001.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1987 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 51 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The Rule includes a new sentence that explicitly states that any
    rulings regarding evidence are governed by Federal Rule of Evidence
    103. The sentence was added because of concerns about the
    Supersession Clause, 28 U.S.C. Sec. 2072(b), of the Rules Enabling
    Act, and the possibility that an argument might have been made that
    Congressional approval of this rule would supersede that Rule of
    Evidence.

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Evidence, referred to in subd. (b), are set
    out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 52                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 52. Harmless and Plain Error

-STATUTE-
      (a) Harmless Error. Any error, defect, irregularity, or variance
    that does not affect substantial rights must be disregarded.
      (b) Plain Error. A plain error that affects substantial rights
    may be considered even though it was not brought to the court's
    attention.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, 28 U.S.C. [former] 391 (second sentence): "On the hearing of
    any appeal, certiorari, writ of error, or motion for a new trial,
    in any case, civil or criminal, the court shall give judgment after
    an examination of the entire record before the court, without
    regard to technical errors, defects, or exceptions which do not
    affect the substantial rights of the parties"; 18 U.S.C. [former]
    556; "No indictment found and presented by a grand jury in any
    district or other court of the United States shall be deemed
    insufficient, nor shall the trial, judgment, or other proceeding
    thereon be affected by reason of any defect or imperfection in
    matter of form only, which shall not tend to the prejudice of the
    defendant, * * *." A similar provision is found in Rule 61 of the
    Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (b). This rule is a restatement of existing
    law, Wiborg v. United States, 163 U.S. 632, 658; Hemphill v. United
    States, 112 F.2d 505 (C.C.A. 9th), reversed 312 U.S. 657. Rule 27
    of the Rules of the Supreme Court provides that errors not
    specified will be disregarded, "save as the court, at its option,
    may notice a plain error not assigned or specified." Similar
    provisions are found in the rules of several circuit courts of
    appeals.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 52 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      Rule 52(b) has been amended by deleting the words "or defect"
    after the words "plain error". The change is intended to remove any
    ambiguity in the rule. As noted by the Supreme Court, the language
    "plain error or defect" was misleading to the extent that it might
    be read in the disjunctive. See United States v. Olano, 507 U.S.
    725, 732 (1993) (incorrect to read Rule 52(b) in the disjunctive);
    United States v. Young, 470 U.S. 1, 15 n. 12 (1985) (use of
    disjunctive in Rule 52(b) is misleading).

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 53                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 53. Courtroom Photographing and Broadcasting Prohibited

-STATUTE-
      Except as otherwise provided by a statute or these rules, the
    court must not permit the taking of photographs in the courtroom
    during judicial proceedings or the broadcasting of judicial
    proceedings from the courtroom.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      While the matter to which the rule refers has not been a problem
    in the Federal courts as it has been in some State tribunals, the
    rule was nevertheless included with a view to giving expression to
    a standard which should govern the conduct of judicial proceedings,
    Orfield, 22 Texas L.R. 194, 222-3; Robbins, 21 A.B.A.Jour. 301,
    304. See, also, Report of the Special Committee on Cooperation
    between Press, Radio and Bar, as to Publicity Interfering with Fair
    Trial of Judicial and Quasi-Judicial Proceedings (1937), 62
    A.B.A.Rep. 851, 862-865; (1932) 18 A.B.A.Jour. 762; (1926) 12 Id.
    488; (1925) 11 Id. 64.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 53 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only, except as noted
    below.
      Although the word "radio" has been deleted from the rule, the
    Committee does not believe that the amendment is a substantive
    change but rather one that accords with judicial interpretation
    applying the current rule to other forms of broadcasting and
    functionally equivalent means. See, e.g., United States v.
    Hastings, 695 F.2d 1278, 1279, n. 5 (11th Cir. 1983) (television
    proceedings prohibited); United States v. McVeigh, 931 F. Supp. 753
    (D. Colo. 1996) (release of tape recordings of proceedings
    prohibited). Given modern technology capabilities, the Committee
    believed that a more generalized reference to "broadcasting" is
    appropriate.
      Also, although the revised rule does not explicitly recognize
    exceptions within the rules themselves, the restyled rule
    recognizes that other rules might permit, for example, video
    teleconferencing, which clearly involves "broadcasting" of the
    proceedings, even if only for limited purposes.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 54                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 54. [Transferred] (!1)

-STATUTE-



-STATUTE-

-MISC1-
                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      Certain provisions in current Rule 54 have been moved to revised
    Rule 1 as part of a general restyling of the Criminal Rules to make
    them more easily understood and to make style and terminology
    consistent throughout the rules. Other provisions in Rule 54 have
    been deleted as being unnecessary.

-FOOTNOTE-               

    (!1) All of Rule 54 was moved to Rule 1.


-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 55                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 55. Records

-STATUTE-
      The clerk of the district court must keep records of criminal
    proceedings in the form prescribed by the Director of the
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts. The clerk must
    enter in the records every court order or judgment and the date of
    entry.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Feb. 28, 1966, eff.
    July 1, 1966; Apr. 24, 1972, eff. Oct. 1, 1972; Apr. 28, 1983, eff.
    Aug. 1, 1983; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 79 [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix], prescribed in detail the books and records to be kept by
    the clerk in civil cases. Subsequently to the effective date of the
    civil rules, however, the Act establishing the Administrative
    Office of the United States Courts became law (Act of August 7,
    1939; 53 Stat. 1223; 28 U.S.C. 444-450 [now 332-333, 456, 601-
    610]). One of the duties of the Director of that Office is to have
    charge, under the supervision and direction of the Conference of
    Senior Circuit Judges, of all administrative matters relating to
    the offices of the clerks and other clerical and administrative
    personnel of the courts, 28 U.S.C. 446 [now 604, 609]. In view of
    this circumstance it seemed best not to prescribe the records to be
    kept by the clerks of the district courts and by the United States
    commissioners, in criminal proceedings, but to vest the power to do
    so in the Director of the Administrative Office of the United
    States Courts with the approval of the Conference of Senior Circuit
    Judges.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1948 AMENDMENT       
      To incorporate nomenclature provided for by Revised Title 28
    U.S.C., Sec. 331.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 37(a)(2) provides that for the purpose of commencing the
    running of the time for appeal a judgment or order is entered "when
    it is entered in the criminal docket." The sentence added here
    requires that such a docket be kept and that it show the dates on
    which judgments or orders are entered therein. Cf. Civil Rule
    79(a).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1983 AMENDMENT       
      The Advisory Committee Note to original Rule 55 observes that, in
    light of the authority which the Director and Judicial Conference
    have over the activities of clerks, "it seems best not to prescribe
    the records to be kept by clerks." Because of current
    experimentation with automated record-keeping, this approach is
    more appropriate than ever before. The amendment will make it
    possible for the Director to permit use of more sophisticated
    record-keeping techniques, including those which may obviate the
    need for a "criminal docket" book. The reference to the Judicial
    Conference has been stricken as unnecessary. See 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    604.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 55 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 56                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 56. When Court Is Open

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General. A district court is considered always open for
    any filing, and for issuing and returning process, making a motion,
    or entering an order.
      (b) Office Hours. The clerk's office - with the clerk or a deputy
    in attendance - must be open during business hours on all days
    except Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
      (c) Special Hours. A court may provide by local rule or order
    that its clerk's office will be open for specified hours on
    Saturdays or legal holidays other than those set aside by statute
    for observing New Year's Day, Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday,
    Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day,
    Columbus Day, Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Feb. 28, 1966, eff.
    July 1, 1966; Dec. 4, 1967, eff. July 1, 1968; Mar. 1, 1971, eff.
    July 1, 1971; Apr. 25, 1988, eff. Aug. 1, 1988; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      1. The first sentence of this rule is substantially the same as
    Rule 77(a) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C.,
    Appendix], except that it is applicable to circuit courts of
    appeals as well as to district courts.
      2. In connection with this rule, see 28 U.S.C. [former] 14
    (Monthly adjournments for trial of criminal causes) and sec. 15
    [now 141] (Special terms). These sections "indicate a policy of
    avoiding the hardships consequent upon a closing of the court
    during vacations," Abbott v. Brown, 241 U.S. 606, 611.
      3. The second sentence of the rule is identical with the first
    sentence of Rule 77(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure [28
    U.S.C., Appendix].
      4. The term "legal holidays" includes Federal holidays as well as
    holidays prescribed by the laws of the State where the clerk's
    office is located.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1948 AMENDMENT       
      To incorporate nomenclature provided for by Revised Title 28,
    U.S.C. Sec. 43(a).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1966 AMENDMENT       
      The change is in conformity with the changes made in Rule 45. See
    the similar changes in Civil Rule 77(c) made effective July 1,
    1963.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1968 AMENDMENT       
      The provisions relating to courts of appeals are included in Rule
    47 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1971 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment adds Columbus Day to the list of legal holidays.
    See the Note accompanying the amendment of Rule 45(a).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1988 AMENDMENT       
      The amendment is technical. No substantive change is intended.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 56 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 57                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 57. District Court Rules

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General.
        (1) Adopting Local Rules. Each district court acting by a
      majority of its district judges may, after giving appropriate
      public notice and an opportunity to comment, make and amend rules
      governing its practice. A local rule must be consistent with -
      but not duplicative of - federal statutes and rules adopted under
      28 U.S.C. Sec. 2072 and must conform to any uniform numbering
      system prescribed by the Judicial Conference of the United
      States.
        (2) Limiting Enforcement. A local rule imposing a requirement
      of form must not be enforced in a manner that causes a party to
      lose rights because of an unintentional failure to comply with
      the requirement.

      (b) Procedure When There Is No Controlling Law. A judge may
    regulate practice in any manner consistent with federal law, these
    rules, and the local rules of the district. No sanction or other
    disadvantage may be imposed for noncompliance with any requirement
    not in federal law, federal rules, or the local district rules
    unless the alleged violator was furnished with actual notice of the
    requirement before the noncompliance.
      (c) Effective Date and Notice. A local rule adopted under this
    rule takes effect on the date specified by the district court and
    remains in effect unless amended by the district court or abrogated
    by the judicial council of the circuit in which the district is
    located. Copies of local rules and their amendments, when
    promulgated, must be furnished to the judicial council and the
    Administrative Office of the United States Courts and must be made
    available to the public.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Dec. 27, 1948, eff. Oct. 20, 1949; Dec. 4, 1967, eff.
    July 1, 1968; Apr. 29, 1985, eff. Aug. 1, 1985; Apr. 22, 1993, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 27, 1995, eff. Dec. 1, 1995; Apr. 29, 2002, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2002.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      Note to Subdivision (a). This rule is substantially a restatement
    of 28 U.S.C. 731 [now 2071] (Rules of practice in district courts).
    A similar provision is found in Rule 83 of the Federal Rules of
    Civil Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix].
      Note to Subdivision (b). 1. One of the purposes of this rule is
    to abrogate any existing requirement of conformity to State
    procedure on any point whatsoever. The Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix] have been held to repeal the
    Conformity Act, Sibbach v. Wilson, 312 U.S. 1, 10.
      2. While the rules are intended to constitute a comprehensive
    procedural code for criminal cases in the Federal courts,
    nevertheless it seemed best not to endeavor to prescribe a uniform
    practice as to some matters of detail, but to leave the individual
    courts free to regulate them, either by local rules or by usage.
    Among such matters are the mode of impaneling a jury, the manner
    and order of interposing challenges to jurors, the manner of
    selecting the foreman of a trial jury, the matter of sealed
    verdicts, the order of counsel's arguments to the jury, and other
    similar details.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1948 AMENDMENT       
      To incorporate nomenclature provided for by Revised Title 28,
    U.S.C., Sec. 43(a).

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1968 AMENDMENT       
      The provisions relating to the court of appeals are included in
    Rule 47 of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1985 AMENDMENT       
      Rule 57 has been reformulated to correspond to Fed.R.Civ.P. 83,
    including the proposed amendments thereto. The purpose of the
    reformulation is to emphasize that the procedures for adoption of
    local rules by a district court are the same under both the civil
    and the criminal rules. In particular, the major purpose of the
    reformulation is to enhance the local rulemaking process by
    requiring appropriate public notice of proposed rules and an
    opportunity to comment on them. See Committee Note to Fed.R.Civ.P.
    83.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1995 AMENDMENT       
      Subdivision (a). This rule is amended to reflect the requirement
    that local rules be consistent not only with the national rules but
    also with Acts of Congress. The amendment also states that local
    rules should not repeat national rules and Acts of Congress.
      The amendment also requires that the numbering of local rules
    conform with any numbering system that may be prescribed by the
    Judicial Conference. Lack of uniform numbering might create
    unnecessary traps for counsel and litigants. A uniform numbering
    system would make it easier for an increasingly national bar to
    locate a local rule that applies to a particular procedural issue.
      Paragraph (2) is new. Its aim is to protect against loss of
    rights in the enforcement of local rules relating to matters of
    form. The proscription of paragraph (2) is narrowly drawn -
    covering only nonwillful violations and only those involving local
    rules directed to matters of form. It does not limit the court's
    power to impose substantive penalties upon a party if it or its
    attorney stubbornly or repeatedly violates a local rule, even one
    involving merely a matter of form. Nor does it affect the court's
    power to enforce local rules that involve more than mere matters of
    form - for example, a local rule requiring that the defendant waive
    a jury trial within a specified time.
      Subdivision (b). This rule provides flexibility to the court in
    regulating practice when there is no controlling law. Specifically,
    it permits the court to regulate practice in any manner consistent
    with Acts of Congress, with rules adopted under 28 U.S.C. Sec.
    2072, and with the district's local rules. This rule recognizes
    that courts rely on multiple directives to control practice. Some
    courts regulate practice through the published Federal Rules and
    the local rules of the court. Some courts also have used internal
    operating procedures, standing orders, and other internal
    directives. Although such directives continue to be authorized,
    they can lead to problems. Counsel or litigants may be unaware of
    the various directives. In addition, the sheer volume of directives
    may impose an unreasonable barrier. For example, it may be
    difficult to obtain copies of the directives. Finally, counsel or
    litigants may be unfairly sanctioned for failing to comply with a
    directive. For these reasons, the amendment disapproves imposing
    any sanction or other disadvantage on a person for noncompliance
    with such an internal directive, unless the alleged violator has
    been furnished in a particular case with actual notice of the
    requirement.
      There should be no adverse consequence to a party or attorney for
    violating special requirements relating to practice before a
    particular judge unless the party or attorney has actual notice of
    those requirements. Furnishing litigants with a copy outlining the
    judge's practices - or attaching instructions to a notice setting a
    case for conference or trial - would suffice to give actual notice,
    as would an order in a case specifically adopting by reference a
    judge's standing order and indicating how copies can be obtained.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 57 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 58                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 58. Petty Offenses and Other Misdemeanors

-STATUTE-
      (a) Scope.
        (1) In General. These rules apply in petty offense and other
      misdemeanor cases and on appeal to a district judge in a case
      tried by a magistrate judge, unless this rule provides otherwise.
        (2) Petty Offense Case Without Imprisonment. In a case
      involving a petty offense for which no sentence of imprisonment
      will be imposed, the court may follow any provision of these
      rules that is not inconsistent with this rule and that the court
      considers appropriate.
        (3) Definition. As used in this rule, the term "petty offense
      for which no sentence of imprisonment will be imposed" means a
      petty offense for which the court determines that, in the event
      of conviction, no sentence of imprisonment will be imposed.

      (b) Pretrial Procedure.
        (1) Charging Document. The trial of a misdemeanor may proceed
      on an indictment, information, or complaint. The trial of a petty
      offense may also proceed on a citation or violation notice.
        (2) Initial Appearance. At the defendant's initial appearance
      on a petty offense or other misdemeanor charge, the magistrate
      judge must inform the defendant of the following:
          (A) the charge, and the minimum and maximum penalties,
        including imprisonment, fines, any special assessment under 18
        U.S.C. Sec. 3013, and restitution under 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3556;
          (B) the right to retain counsel;
          (C) the right to request the appointment of counsel if the
        defendant is unable to retain counsel - unless the charge is a
        petty offense for which the appointment of counsel is not
        required;
          (D) the defendant's right not to make a statement, and that
        any statement made may be used against the defendant;
          (E) the right to trial, judgment, and sentencing before a
        district judge - unless:
            (i) the charge is a petty offense; or
            (ii) the defendant consents to trial, judgment, and
          sentencing before a magistrate judge;

          (F) the right to a jury trial before either a magistrate
        judge or a district judge - unless the charge is a petty
        offense; and
          (G) any right to a preliminary hearing under Rule 5.1, and
        the general circumstances, if any, under which the defendant
        may secure pretrial release.

        (3) Arraignment.
          (A) Plea Before a Magistrate Judge. A magistrate judge may
        take the defendant's plea in a petty offense case. In every
        other misdemeanor case, a magistrate judge may take the plea
        only if the defendant consents either in writing or on the
        record to be tried before a magistrate judge and specifically
        waives trial before a district judge. The defendant may plead
        not guilty, guilty, or (with the consent of the magistrate
        judge) nolo contendere.
          (B) Failure to Consent. Except in a petty offense case, the
        magistrate judge must order a defendant who does not consent to
        trial before a magistrate judge to appear before a district
        judge for further proceedings.

      (c) Additional Procedures in Certain Petty Offense Cases. The
    following procedures also apply in a case involving a petty offense
    for which no sentence of imprisonment will be imposed:
        (1) Guilty or Nolo Contendere Plea. The court must not accept a
      guilty or nolo contendere plea unless satisfied that the
      defendant understands the nature of the charge and the maximum
      possible penalty.
        (2) Waiving Venue.
          (A) Conditions of Waiving Venue. If a defendant is arrested,
        held, or present in a district different from the one where the
        indictment, information, complaint, citation, or violation
        notice is pending, the defendant may state in writing a desire
        to plead guilty or nolo contendere; to waive venue and trial in
        the district where the proceeding is pending; and to consent to
        the court's disposing of the case in the district where the
        defendant was arrested, is held, or is present.
          (B) Effect of Waiving Venue. Unless the defendant later
        pleads not guilty, the prosecution will proceed in the district
        where the defendant was arrested, is held, or is present. The
        district clerk must notify the clerk in the original district
        of the defendant's waiver of venue. The defendant's statement
        of a desire to plead guilty or nolo contendere is not
        admissible against the defendant.

        (3) Sentencing. The court must give the defendant an
      opportunity to be heard in mitigation and then proceed
      immediately to sentencing. The court may, however, postpone
      sentencing to allow the probation service to investigate or to
      permit either party to submit additional information.
        (4) Notice of a Right to Appeal. After imposing sentence in a
      case tried on a not-guilty plea, the court must advise the
      defendant of a right to appeal the conviction and of any right to
      appeal the sentence. If the defendant was convicted on a plea of
      guilty or nolo contendere, the court must advise the defendant of
      any right to appeal the sentence.

      (d) Paying a Fixed Sum in Lieu of Appearance.
        (1) In General. If the court has a local rule governing
      forfeiture of collateral, the court may accept a fixed-sum
      payment in lieu of the defendant's appearance and end the case,
      but the fixed sum may not exceed the maximum fine allowed by law.
        (2) Notice to Appear. If the defendant fails to pay a fixed
      sum, request a hearing, or appear in response to a citation or
      violation notice, the district clerk or a magistrate judge may
      issue a notice for the defendant to appear before the court on a
      date certain. The notice may give the defendant an additional
      opportunity to pay a fixed sum in lieu of appearance. The
      district clerk must serve the notice on the defendant by mailing
      a copy to the defendant's last known address.
        (3) Summons or Warrant. Upon an indictment, or upon a showing
      by one of the other charging documents specified in Rule 58(b)(1)
      of probable cause to believe that an offense has been committed
      and that the defendant has committed it, the court may issue an
      arrest warrant or, if no warrant is requested by an attorney for
      the government, a summons. The showing of probable cause must be
      made under oath or under penalty of perjury, but the affiant need
      not appear before the court. If the defendant fails to appear
      before the court in response to a summons, the court may
      summarily issue a warrant for the defendant's arrest.

      (e) Recording the Proceedings. The court must record any
    proceedings under this rule by using a court reporter or a suitable
    recording device.
      (f) New Trial. Rule 33 applies to a motion for a new trial.
      (g) Appeal.
        (1) From a District Judge's Order or Judgment. The Federal
      Rules of Appellate Procedure govern an appeal from a district
      judge's order or a judgment of conviction or sentence.
        (2) From a Magistrate Judge's Order or Judgment.
          (A) Interlocutory Appeal. Either party may appeal an order of
        a magistrate judge to a district judge within 14 days of its
        entry if a district judge's order could similarly be appealed.
        The party appealing must file a notice with the clerk
        specifying the order being appealed and must serve a copy on
        the adverse party.
          (B) Appeal from a Conviction or Sentence. A defendant may
        appeal a magistrate judge's judgment of conviction or sentence
        to a district judge within 14 days of its entry. To appeal, the
        defendant must file a notice with the clerk specifying the
        judgment being appealed and must serve a copy on an attorney
        for the government.
          (C) Record. The record consists of the original papers and
        exhibits in the case; any transcript, tape, or other recording
        of the proceedings; and a certified copy of the docket entries.
        For purposes of the appeal, a copy of the record of the
        proceedings must be made available to a defendant who
        establishes by affidavit an inability to pay or give security
        for the record. The Director of the Administrative Office of
        the United States Courts must pay for those copies.
          (D) Scope of Appeal. The defendant is not entitled to a trial
        de novo by a district judge. The scope of the appeal is the
        same as in an appeal to the court of appeals from a judgment
        entered by a district judge.

        (3) Stay of Execution and Release Pending Appeal. Rule 38
      applies to a stay of a judgment of conviction or sentence. The
      court may release the defendant pending appeal under the law
      relating to release pending appeal from a district court to a
      court of appeals.

-SOURCE-
    (Added May 1, 1990, eff. Dec. 1, 1990; amended Apr. 30, 1991, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1991; Apr. 22, 1993, eff. Dec. 1, 1993; Apr. 11, 1997, eff.
    Dec. 1, 1997; Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 12, 2006, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2006; Mar. 26, 2009, eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1990            
      This new rule is largely a restatement of the Rules of Procedure
    for the Trial of Misdemeanors before United States Magistrates
    which were promulgated in 1980 to replace the Rules for the Trial
    of Minor Offenses before United States Magistrates (1970). The
    Committee believed that a new single rule should be incorporated
    into the Rules of Criminal Procedure where those charged with its
    execution could readily locate it and realize its relationship with
    the other Rules. A number of technical changes have been made
    throughout the rule and unless otherwise noted, no substantive
    changes were intended in those amendments. The Committee envisions
    no major changes in the way in which the trial of misdemeanors and
    petty offenses are currently handled.
      The title of the rule has been changed by deleting the phrase
    "Before United States Magistrates" to indicate that this rule may
    be used by district judges as well as magistrates. The phrase "and
    Petty Offenses" has been added to the title and elsewhere
    throughout the rule because the term "misdemeanor" does not include
    an "infraction." See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3559(a). A petty offense,
    however, is defined in 18 U.S.C. Sec. 19 as a Class B misdemeanor,
    a Class C misdemeanor, or an infraction, with limitations on fines
    of no more than $5,000 for an individual and $10,000 for an
    organization.
      Subdivision (a) is an amended version of current Magistrates Rule
    1. Deletion of the phrase "before United States Magistrates under
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3401" in Rule 1(a) will enable district judges to
    use the abbreviated procedures of this rule. Consistent with that
    change, the term "magistrate" is amended to read "the court,"
    wherever appropriate throughout the rule, to indicate that both
    judges and magistrates may use the rule. The last sentence in
    (a)(1) has been amended to reflect that the rule also governs an
    appeal from a magistrate's decision to a judge of the district
    court. An appeal from a district judge's decision would be governed
    by the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. Subdivision (a)(2)
    rephrases prior language in Magistrate Rule 1(b). Subdivision
    (a)(3) adds a statutory reference to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 19, which
    defines a petty offense as a "Class B misdemeanor, a Class C
    misdemeanor, or an infraction" with the $5,000 and $10,000 fine
    limitations noted supra. The phrase "regardless of the penalty
    authorized by law" has been deleted.
      Subdivision (b) is an amended version of current Magistrates Rule
    2. The last sentence in current Rule 2(a) has been deleted because
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3401(a), provides that a magistrate will have
    jurisdiction to try misdemeanor cases when specially designated to
    do so by the district court or courts served by the Magistrate.
      Subdivision (b)(2) reflects the standard rights advisements
    currently included in Magistrates Rule 2 with several amendments.
    Subdivision (b)(2)(A) specifically requires that the defendant be
    advised of all penalties which may be imposed upon conviction,
    including specifically a special assessment and restitution. A
    number of technical, nonsubstantive, changes have been made in the
    contents of advisement of rights. A substantive change is reflected
    in subdivision (b)(2)(G), currently Magistrates Rule 2(b)(7), and
    (8). That rule currently provides that, unless the prosecution is
    on an indictment or information, a defendant who is charged with a
    misdemeanor other than a petty offense has a right to a preliminary
    hearing, if the defendant does not consent to be tried by the
    magistrate. As amended, only a defendant in custody has a right to
    a preliminary hearing.
      Subdivision (b)(3)(A) is based upon Magistrates Rule 2(c) and has
    been amended by deleting the last sentence, which provides that
    trial may occur within 30 days "upon written consent of the
    defendant." The change is warranted because the Speedy Trial Act
    does not apply to petty offenses. See 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3172(2).
    Subdivision (b)(3)(B), "Failure to Consent," currently appears in
    Magistrates Rule 3(a). The first sentence has been amended to make
    it applicable to all misdemeanor and petty offense defendants who
    fail to consent. The last sentence of Rule 3(a) has been deleted
    entirely. Because the clerk is responsible for all district court
    case files, including those for misdemeanor and petty offense cases
    tried by magistrates, it is not necessary to state that the file be
    transmitted to the clerk of court.
      Subdivision (c) is an amended version of current Magistrates Rule
    3 with the exception of Rule 3(a), which, as noted supra is now
    located in subdivision (b)(3)(B) of the new rule. The phrase "petty
    offense for which no sentence of imprisonment will be imposed" has
    been deleted because the heading for subdivision (c) limits its
    application to those petty offenses. The Committee recognizes that
    subdivision (c)(2) might result in attempted forum shopping. See,
    e.g., United States v. Shaw, 467 F. Supp. 86 (W.D. La. 1979),
    affm'd, 615 F. 2d 251 (5th Cir. 1980). In order to maintain a
    streamlined and less formal procedure which is consistent with the
    remainder of the Rule, subdivision (c)(2) does not require the
    formal "consent" of the United States Attorneys involved before a
    waiver of venue may be accomplished. Cf. Rule 20 (Transfer From the
    District for Plea and Sentence). The Rule specifically envisions
    that there will be communication and coordination between the two
    districts involved. To that end, reasonable efforts should be made
    to contact the United States Attorney in the district in which the
    charges were instituted. Subdivision (c)(4), formerly Rule 3(d),
    now specifically provides that the defendant be advised of the
    right to appeal the sentence. This subdivision is also amended to
    provide for advising the defendant of the right to appeal a
    sentence under the Sentencing Reform Act when the defendant is
    sentenced following a plea of guilty. Both amendments track the
    language of Rule 32(a)(2), as amended by the Sentencing Reform Act.
      Subdivision (d) is an amended version of Magistrates Rule 4. The
    amendments are technical in nature and no substantive change is
    intended.
      Subdivision (e) consists of the first sentence of Magistrates
    Rule 5. The second sentence of that Rule was deleted as being
    inconsistent with 28 U.S.C. Sec. 753(b) which gives the court
    discretion to decide how the proceedings will be recorded. The
    third sentence is deleted to preclude routine waivers of a verbatim
    record and to insure that all petty offenses are recorded.
      Subdivision (f) replaces Magistrates Rule 6 and simply
    incorporates by reference Rule 33.
      Subdivision (g) is an amended version of Magistrates Rule 7.
    Because the new rule may be used by both magistrates and judges,
    subdivision (g)(1) was added to make it clear that the Federal
    Rules of Appellate Procedure govern any appeal in a case tried by a
    district judge pursuant to the new rule. Subdivision (g)(2)(B),
    based upon Magistrates Rule 7(b), now provides for appeal of a
    sentence by a magistrate and is thus consistent with the provisions
    of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3742(f). Finally, subdivision (g)(3) is based
    upon Magistrates Rule 7(d) but has been amended to provide that a
    stay of execution is applicable, if an appeal is taken from a
    sentence as well as from a conviction. This change is consistent
    with the recent amendment of Rule 38 by the Sentencing Reform Act.
      The new rule does not include Magistrates Rules 8 and 9. Rule 8
    has been deleted because the subject of local rules is covered in
    Rule 57. Rule 9, which defined a petty offense, is now covered in
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 19.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1991 AMENDMENT       
      The amendments are technical. No substantive changes are
    intended.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1993 AMENDMENT       
      The Rule is amended to conform to the Judicial Improvements Act
    of 1990 [P.L. 101-650, Title III, Section 321] which provides that
    each United States magistrate appointed under section 631 of title
    28, United States Code, shall be known as a United States
    magistrate judge.

           NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1997 AMENDMENT       
      The Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996, Sec. 202, amended 18
    U.S.C. Sec. 3401(b) and 28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(a) to remove the
    requirement that a defendant must consent to a trial before a
    magistrate judge in a petty offense that is a class B misdemeanor
    charging a motor vehicle offense, a class C misdemeanor, or an
    infraction. Section 202 also changed 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3401(b) to
    provide that in all other misdemeanor cases, the defendant may
    consent to trial either orally on the record or in writing. The
    amendments to Rule 58(b)(2) and (3) conform the rule to the new
    statutory language and include minor stylistic changes.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      The language of Rule 58 has been amended as part of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules to make them more easily understood
    and to make style and terminology consistent throughout the rules.
    These changes are intended to be stylistic only.
      The title of the rule has been changed to "Petty Offenses and
    Other Misdemeanors." In Rule 58(c)(2)(B) (regarding waiver of
    venue), the Committee amended the rule to require that the
    "district clerk," instead of the magistrate judge, inform the
    original district clerk if the defendant waives venue and the
    prosecution proceeds in the district where the defendant was
    arrested. The Committee intends no change in practice.
      In Rule 58(g)(1) and (g)(2)(A), the Committee deleted as
    unnecessary the word "decision" because its meaning is covered by
    existing references to an "order, judgment, or sentence" by a
    district judge or magistrate judge. In the Committee's view,
    deletion of that term does not amount to a substantive change.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2006 AMENDMENT             
      Subdivision (b)(2)(G). Rule 58(b)(2)(G) sets out the advice to be
    given to defendants at an initial appearance on a misdemeanor
    charge, other than a petty offense. As currently written, the rule
    is restricted to those cases where the defendant is held in
    custody, thus creating a conflict and some confusion when compared
    to Rule 5.1(a) concerning the right to a preliminary hearing.
    Paragraph (G) is incomplete in its description of the circumstances
    requiring a preliminary hearing. In contrast, Rule 5.1(a) is a
    correct statement of the law concerning the defendant's entitlement
    to a preliminary hearing and is consistent with 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3060
    in this regard. Rather than attempting to define, or restate, in
    Rule 58 when a defendant may be entitled to a Rule 5.1 preliminary
    hearing, the rule is amended to direct the reader to Rule 5.1.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee [made]
    no changes to the Rule or Committee note after publication.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The times set in the former rule at 10 days have been revised to
    14 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

-REFTEXT-
                            REFERENCES IN TEXT                        
      The Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, referred to in subd.
    (g)(1), are set out in the Appendix to Title 28, Judiciary and
    Judicial Procedure.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 59                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 59. Matters Before a Magistrate Judge

-STATUTE-
      (a) Nondispositive Matters. A district judge may refer to a
    magistrate judge for determination any matter that does not dispose
    of a charge or defense. The magistrate judge must promptly conduct
    the required proceedings and, when appropriate, enter on the record
    an oral or written order stating the determination. A party may
    serve and file objections to the order within 14 days after being
    served with a copy of a written order or after the oral order is
    stated on the record, or at some other time the court sets. The
    district judge must consider timely objections and modify or set
    aside any part of the order that is contrary to law or clearly
    erroneous. Failure to object in accordance with this rule waives a
    party's right to review.
      (b) Dispositive Matters.
        (1) Referral to Magistrate Judge. A district judge may refer to
      a magistrate judge for recommendation a defendant's motion to
      dismiss or quash an indictment or information, a motion to
      suppress evidence, or any matter that may dispose of a charge or
      defense. The magistrate judge must promptly conduct the required
      proceedings. A record must be made of any evidentiary proceeding
      and of any other proceeding if the magistrate judge considers it
      necessary. The magistrate judge must enter on the record a
      recommendation for disposing of the matter, including any
      proposed findings of fact. The clerk must immediately serve
      copies on all parties.
        (2) Objections to Findings and Recommendations. Within 14 days
      after being served with a copy of the recommended disposition, or
      at some other time the court sets, a party may serve and file
      specific written objections to the proposed findings and
      recommendations. Unless the district judge directs otherwise, the
      objecting party must promptly arrange for transcribing the
      record, or whatever portions of it the parties agree to or the
      magistrate judge considers sufficient. Failure to object in
      accordance with this rule waives a party's right to review.
        (3) De Novo Review of Recommendations. The district judge must
      consider de novo any objection to the magistrate judge's
      recommendation. The district judge may accept, reject, or modify
      the recommendation, receive further evidence, or resubmit the
      matter to the magistrate judge with instructions.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 25, 2005, eff. Dec. 1, 2005; amended Mar. 26, 2009,
    eff. Dec. 1, 2009.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002                  
      Rule 59, which dealt with the effective date of the Federal Rules
    of Criminal Procedure, is no longer necessary and has been deleted.

                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2005                  
      Rule 59 is a new rule that creates a procedure for a district
    judge to review nondispositive and dispositive decisions by
    magistrate judges. The rule is derived in part from Federal Rule of
    Civil Procedure 72.
      The Committee's consideration of a new rule on the subject of
    review of a magistrate judge's decisions resulted from United
    States v. Abonce-Barrera, 257 F.3d 959 (9th Cir. 2001). In that
    case the Ninth Circuit held that the Criminal Rules do not require
    appeals from nondispositive decisions by magistrate judges to
    district judges as a requirement for review by a court of appeals.
    The court suggested that Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 72 could
    serve as a suitable model for a criminal rule.
      Rule 59(a) sets out procedures to be used in reviewing
    nondispositive matters, that is, those matters that do not dispose
    of the case. The rule requires that if the district judge has
    referred a matter to a magistrate judge, the magistrate judge must
    issue an oral or written order on the record. To preserve the issue
    for further review, a party must object to that order within 10
    days after being served with a copy of the order or after the oral
    order is stated on the record or at some other time set by the
    court. If an objection is made, the district court is required to
    consider the objection. If the court determines that the magistrate
    judge's order, or a portion of the order, is contrary to law or is
    clearly erroneous, the court must set aside the order, or the
    affected part of the order. See also 28 U.S.C. Sec. 636(b)(1)(A).
      Rule 59(b) provides for assignment and review of recommendations
    made by magistrate judges on dispositive matters, including motions
    to suppress or quash an indictment or information. The rule directs
    the magistrate judge to consider the matter promptly, hold any
    necessary evidentiary hearings, and enter his or her recommendation
    on the record. After being served with a copy of the magistrate
    judge's recommendation, under Rule 59(b)(2), the parties have a
    period of 10 days to file any objections. If any objections are
    filed, the district court must consider the matter de novo and
    accept, reject, or modify the recommendation, or return the matter
    to the magistrate judge for further consideration.
      Both Rule 59(a) and (b) contain a provision that explicitly
    states that failure to file an objection in accordance with the
    rule amounts to a waiver of the issue. This waiver provision is
    intended to establish the requirements for objecting in a district
    court in order to preserve appellate review of magistrate judges'
    decisions. In Thomas v. Arn, 474 U.S. 140, 155 (1985), the Supreme
    Court approved the adoption of waiver rules on matters for which a
    magistrate judge had made a decision or recommendation. The
    Committee believes that the waiver provisions will enhance the
    ability of a district court to review a magistrate judge's decision
    or recommendation by requiring a party to promptly file an
    objection to that part of the decision or recommendation at issue.
    Further, the Supreme Court has held that a de novo review of a
    magistrate judge's decision or recommendation is required to
    satisfy Article III concerns only where there is an objection.
    Peretz v. United States, 501 U.S. 293 (1991).
      Despite the waiver provisions, the district judge retains the
    authority to review any magistrate judge's decision or
    recommendation whether or not objections are timely filed. This
    discretionary review is in accord with the Supreme Court's decision
    in Thomas v. Arn, supra, at 154. See also Matthews v. Weber, 423
    U.S. 261, 270-271 (1976).
      Although the rule distinguishes between "dispositive" and
    "nondispositive" matters, it does not attempt to define or
    otherwise catalog motions that may fall within either category.
    Instead, that task is left to the case law.
      Changes Made After Publication and Comment. The Committee adopted
    almost all of the style suggestions by the Style Subcommittee, and
    several of the suggestions by the Federal Magistrate Judges'
    Association. In particular the Committee adopted a variation of the
    language suggested by the Association concerning matters disposing
    of a "charge or defense." The committee also addressed the issue in
    Rule 59(a) of clarifying the starting point for the 10 days in
    which to file objections by changing the word "made" in line 9 to
    read "stated." In Rule 59(b)(1) the Committee rearranged the order
    of the sample motions that would be considered "dispositive."
    Finally, the Committee included a paragraph at the end of the
    Committee Note, addressing the decision not to further specify in
    the rule, or the Note, what matters might be dispositive or
    nondispositive.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2009 AMENDMENT             
      The times set in the former rule at 10 days have been revised to
    14 days. See the Committee Note to Rule 45(a).

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 60                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 60. Victim's Rights

-STATUTE-
      (a) In General.
        (1) Notice of a Proceeding. The government must use its best
      efforts to give the victim reasonable, accurate, and timely
      notice of any public court proceeding involving the crime.
        (2) Attending the Proceeding. The court must not exclude a
      victim from a public court proceeding involving the crime, unless
      the court determines by clear and convincing evidence that the
      victim's testimony would be materially altered if the victim
      heard other testimony at that proceeding. In determining whether
      to exclude a victim, the court must make every effort to permit
      the fullest attendance possible by the victim and must consider
      reasonable alternatives to exclusion. The reasons for any
      exclusion must be clearly stated on the record.
        (3) Right to Be Heard on Release, a Plea, or Sentencing. The
      court must permit a victim to be reasonably heard at any public
      proceeding in the district court concerning release, plea, or
      sentencing involving the crime.

      (b) Enforcement and Limitations.
        (1) Time for Deciding a Motion. The court must promptly decide
      any motion asserting a victim's rights described in these rules.
        (2) Who May Assert the Rights. A victim's rights described in
      these rules may be asserted by the victim, the victim's lawful
      representative, the attorney for the government, or any other
      person as authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(d) and (e).
        (3) Multiple Victims. If the court finds that the number of
      victims makes it impracticable to accord all of them their rights
      described in these rules, the court must fashion a reasonable
      procedure that gives effect to these rights without unduly
      complicating or prolonging the proceedings.
        (4) Where Rights May Be Asserted. A victim's rights described
      in these rules must be asserted in the district where a defendant
      is being prosecuted for the crime.
        (5) Limitations on Relief. A victim may move to reopen a plea
      or sentence only if:
          (A) the victim asked to be heard before or during the
        proceeding at issue, and the request was denied;
          (B) the victim petitions the court of appeals for a writ of
        mandamus within 10 days after the denial, and the writ is
        granted; and
          (C) in the case of a plea, the accused has not pleaded to the
        highest offense charged.

        (6) No New Trial. A failure to afford a victim any right
      described in these rules is not grounds for a new trial.

-SOURCE-
    (Added Apr. 23, 2008, eff. Dec. 1, 2008.)


-MISC1-
                      COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008                  
      This rule implements several provisions of the Crime Victims'
    Rights Act, codified at 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771, in judicial
    proceedings in the federal courts.
      Subdivision (a)(1). This subdivision incorporates 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(2), which provides that a victim has a "right to
    reasonable, accurate, and timely notice of any public court
    proceeding. . . ." The enactment of 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(a)(2)
    supplemented an existing statutory requirement that all federal
    departments and agencies engaged in the detection, investigation,
    and prosecution of crime identify victims at the earliest possible
    time and inform those victims of various rights, including the
    right to notice of the status of the investigation, the arrest of a
    suspect, the filing of charges against a suspect, and the
    scheduling of judicial proceedings. See 42 U.S.C. Sec. 10607(b) &
    (c)(3)(A)-(D).
      Subdivision (a)(2). This subdivision incorporates 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(3), which provides that the victim shall not be excluded
    from public court proceedings unless the court finds by clear and
    convincing evidence that the victim's testimony would be materially
    altered by attending and hearing other testimony at the proceeding,
    and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(b), which provides that the court shall
    make every effort to permit the fullest possible attendance by the
    victim.
      Rule 615 of the Federal Rules of Evidence addresses the
    sequestration of witnesses. Although Rule 615 requires the court
    upon the request of a party to order the witnesses to be excluded
    so they cannot hear the testimony of other witnesses, it contains
    an exception for "a person authorized by statute to be present."
    Accordingly, there is no conflict between Rule 615 and this rule,
    which implements the provisions of the Crime Victims' Rights Act.
      Subdivision (a)(3). This subdivision incorporates 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(a)(4), which provides that a victim has the "right to be
    reasonably heard at any public proceeding in the district court
    involving release, plea, [or] sentencing. . . ."
      Subdivision (b). This subdivision incorporates the provisions of
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(d)(1), (2), (3), and (5). The statute provides
    that the victim, the victim's lawful representative, and the
    attorney for the government, and any other person as authorized by
    18 U.S.C. Sec. 377l(d) and (e) may assert the victim's rights. In
    referring to the victim and the victim's lawful representative, the
    committee intends to include counsel. 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(e) makes
    provision for the rights of victims who are incompetent,
    incapacitated, or deceased, and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 3771(d)(1) provides
    that "[a] person accused of the crime may not obtain any form of
    relief under this chapter."
      The statute provides that those rights are to be asserted in the
    district court where the defendant is being prosecuted (or if no
    prosecution is underway, in the district where the crime occurred).
    Where there are too many victims to accord each the rights provided
    by the statute, the district court is given the authority to
    fashion a reasonable procedure to give effect to the rights without
    unduly complicating or prolonging the proceedings.
      Finally, the statute and the rule make it clear that failure to
    provide relief under the rule never provides a basis for a new
    trial. Failure to afford the rights provided by the statute and
    implementing rules may provide a basis for re-opening a plea or a
    sentence, but only if the victim can establish all of the
    following: the victim asserted the right before or during the
    proceeding, the right was denied, the victim petitioned for
    mandamus within 10 days as provided by 18 U.S.C. Sec.
    3771(d)(5)(B), and - in the case of a plea - the defendant did not
    plead guilty to the highest offense charged.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    Subdivision (a)(2) was revised to make it clear that the duty to
    permit fullest attendance arises in the context of the victim's
    possible exclusion.
      Subdivision(b)(2) was revised to respond to concerns that the
    amendments did not clearly state that the victim's lawful
    representative could assert the victim's rights. The Committee Note
    makes it clear that a victim or the lawful representative of a
    victim may generally participate through counsel, and provides that
    any other person authorized by 18 U.S.C. Sec.3771(d) and (e) may
    assert the victim's rights, such as persons authorized to raise the
    rights of victims who are minors or are incompetent.
      References throughout subdivision (b) were revised to indicate
    that they were applicable to the victim's rights described in the
    Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, not merely subdivision (a) of
    Rule 60.
      Other minor changes were made at the suggestion of the Style
    Consultant to improve clarity.

-End-



-CITE-
    18 USC APPENDIX Rule 61                                     01/03/2012 (112-90)

-EXPCITE-
    TITLE 18 - APPENDIX
    FEDERAL RULES OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
    TITLE IX. GENERAL PROVISIONS

-HEAD-
    Rule 61. Title

-STATUTE-
      These rules may be known and cited as the Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure.

-SOURCE-
    (As amended Apr. 29, 2002, eff. Dec. 1, 2002; Apr. 23, 2008, eff.
    Dec. 1, 2008.)


-MISC1-
                       SHORT TITLE OF 1975 AMENDMENT                   
      Pub. L. 94-64, Sec. 1, July 31, 1975, 89 Stat. 370, provided:
    "That this Act [amending rules 4, 9, 11, 12, 12.1, 12.2, 15, 16,
    17, 20, 32 and 43 of these rules and enacting provisions set out as
    a note under rule 4] may be cited as the 'Federal Rules of Criminal
    Procedure Amendments Act of 1975'."

                NOTES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON RULES - 1944            
      This rule is similar to Rule 85 of the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure [28 U.S.C., Appendix], which reads as follows:
      These rules may be known and cited as the Federal Rules of Civil
    Procedure.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2002 AMENDMENT             
      No changes have been made to Rule 60, as a result of the general
    restyling of the Criminal Rules.

                 COMMITTEE NOTES ON RULES - 2008 AMENDMENT             
      Excerpt from Report of the Advisory Committee on Federal Rules of
    Criminal Procedure. This amendment renumbers current Rule 60 as
    Rule 61 to accommodate the new victims' rights rule.
      Changes Made to Proposed Amendment Released for Public Comment.
    No changes were made.

-End-


